New Jersey
Victims of Crime Compensation Office

FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions)

The New Jersey Victims of Crime Compensation Office (VCCO) provides compensation to certain
victims of crime for some of the expenses they incur as a result of their victimization. The following
is a list of frequently asked questions (FAQ’s) and useful information about VCCO’s services:
Who is eligible to file a VCCO claim?

Who determines my claim eligibility?

People who are eligible include crime victims, their family
members, dependents of victims, the estate of the victims, guardians
of victims, and the authorized agent of the victims’ dependents.
Additionally, any person who paid for services on behalf of a victim
may file for reimbursement under a victim’s claim.

VCCO is responsible for determining the eligibility of all claims
in compliance with its governing law. Law enforcement does not
determine a victim’s eligibility for VCCO assistance. They are only
required to inform all victims of the availability of VCCO services.

For a list of crimes covered, visit: njoag.gov/vcco/vcco-benefits.

How do I file a VCCO claim?
To file a claim, you need to complete the online VCCO claim
application at www.njvictims.org. Include in your claim police
reports and all documentation supporting the financial loss or
financial needs if possible. VCCO will contact you once your
application is received.

Can I still file a claim if the suspect
has not been arrested or if the accused
person is acquitted at trial?
Yes. Compensation may be made whether or not a person is
prosecuted or found guilty of the crime.

What are the eligibility criteria?

What benefits can VCCO assist with?
Benefits include: medical and counseling related expenses, loss of
earnings, loss of support, funeral expenses, relocation assistance
for crime related safety concerns, child care and domestic help,
transportation assistance for funeral and attendance, and court
attendance or medical appointments.

Is the VCCO a crisis intervention agency?
No. VCCO’s primary responsibility to is provide compensation to
victims. As a victim service agency, it does provide information to
all victims in need about available resources, such as shelters, legal
services, counseling services (such as trauma recovery), but does
not itself provide these services.

Is victim compensation taxable?

To be compensated, all of the following must be met:

According to IRS Revenue Ruling 74-74, victim compensation is
not taxable to victims who receive it.

• The crime must have been committed in the State of N.J.,

Does VCCO assist victims who are undocumented?

• It must have been reported to law enforcement
within 9 months of the crime, filing of a restraining
order or sexual violence protective order, and

Yes. VCCO benefits are available to victims of compensable crimes,
regardless of immigration status. Victims who apply are only
required to provide supporting documentation related to their claim.

• The VCCO application must be filed
within 5 years of the crime date.

Does VCCO deny claims if the applicant
has open municipal charges or warrants?

Have there been any recent changes
to VCCO eligibility and benefits?

No, unless the open charge or warrant is directly related to the
crime. If there is an active superior court warrant, VCCO will
close the case, although it may be reopened at a later time.

Yes, there have been several important updates:

How does VCCO disperse payments?

• An increase in the amount of reimbursement
for attorney representation
• Limited compensation for homicide cases where the victim
contributed to their own death, new types of benefits specific to
Human Trafficking victims, and new crime types (Disorderly
Persons, Harassment, and Criminal Mischief).

VCCO provides payment only after other resources – like
insurance – are exhausted. VCCO can reimburse victims for
services already paid or payment can be submitted directly to a
vendor or service provider registered with NJSTART.

NJ Office of the Attorney General • Violence Intervention & Victim Assistance

Victims of Crime Compensation Office

877-658-2221 • www.NJVictims.org • njvictims@njvictims.org

