New Jersey Revised Statutes Section 52:4B-52 (2025) - Duties of program coordinator; "rape care advocate" defined. :: 2025 New Jersey Revised Statutes :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 N.J. Rev. Stat. (here) 2024 N.J. Rev. Stat. 2023 N.J. Rev. Stat. View All Versions 2025 New Jersey Revised Statutes Title 52 - State Government, Departments and Officers Section 52:4B-52 - Duties of program coordinator; "rape care advocate" defined. Universal Citation: NJ Rev Stat § 52:4B-52 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next 52:4B-52 Duties of program coordinator; "rape care advocate" defined. 4. The program coordinator shall: a. Coordinate the county Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner program in accordance with standard protocols for the provision of information and services to victims of sexual assault developed by the Attorney General pursuant to subsection d. of section 6 of P.L.1985, c.404 (C.52:4B-44); b. Perform forensic sexual assault examinations on victims of sexual assault in accordance with the standards developed by the Attorney General and appropriate medical and nursing standards of care; c. Designate one or more licensed physicians or certified forensic sexual assault nurse examiners to perform forensic sexual assault examinations on victims of sexual assault in accordance with the standards developed by the Attorney General and appropriate medical and nursing standards of care; d. Develop and implement standardized guidelines for forensic sexual assault examinations performed by designated physicians or certified forensic sexual assault nurse examiners in the county; e. Develop and implement a standardized education and training program to provide instruction to members of the county Sexual Assault Response Team established pursuant to section 6 of this act which shall include, but not be limited to, instruction in the following areas: (1) the importance of a coordinated, multi-disciplinary response to a report of sexual assault; (2) the policies and procedures which govern the responsibilities of each team member; (3) the psychological effects of sexual assault and rape trauma syndrome on the victim and the victim's family and friends; (4) the collection, handling and documentation of forensic evidence; and (5) confidentiality issues associated with the treatment of a victim of sexual assault and the investigation of a report of sexual assault; f. Establish, in cooperation with licensed health care facilities, private waiting rooms and areas designated for forensic sexual assault examinations and the provision of rape care services in the licensed health care facilities participating in the program; g. Develop, in cooperation with licensed health care facilities, protocols for the storage of forensic evidence; h. Provide appropriate services to victims of sexual assault, including the opportunity to tend to personal hygiene needs, obtain fresh clothing and speak with a rape care advocate prior to and during any medical procedure or law enforcement investigation, unless the victim requires immediate medical attention, as appropriate; i. Collaborate with law enforcement officials and the county rape care program to ensure that the needs of victims of sexual assault are met in a compassionate manner; j. Participate in regular meetings of the Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner Program Coordinating Council established pursuant to section 7 of this act; and k. Develop and implement procedures to ensure that victims of sexual assault are not charged any fee for services that are directly associated with forensic sexual assault examinations, including routine medical screening, medications for prophylaxis of sexually transmitted infections, pregnancy tests, emergency contraception, supplies, equipment and use of space. As used in this section and section 6 of this act, "rape care advocate" means a victim counselor, as defined pursuant to section 3 of P.L.1987, c.169 (C.2A:84A-22.14), who specializes in the provision of rape care services. L.2001, c.81, s.4; amended 2011, c.106, s.2. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. New Jersey may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Toggle button Get free summaries of new Supreme Court of New Jersey opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions