Attorney General Standards for Providing
Services to Victims of Sexual Assault
3rd Edition

NJ Department of Law & Public Safety
Division of Criminal Justice
November 2018

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

INTRODUCTION
Background
Sexual assault crimes have a tremendous impact on victims and their families. The emotional
and psychological injuries sustained are often as, if not more, serious than the physical injuries,
potentially affecting every aspect of a victim’s life long after the physical injuries have healed.
New Jersey recognizes the importance of developing a model for providing services that treats
sexual assault victims with respect, sensitivity, and understanding, so as to best promote
healing for the victim and improve the identification and collection of evidence in all cases of
sexual assault. Dignified and compassionate services are essential elements when creating an
environment in which victims feel safe asking for support; and well-organized services ensure
that these critical support systems are easily accessible by all victims.
The Attorney General Standards for Providing Services to Victims of Sexual Assault (Standards) were
developed to implement a set of protocols that prioritize the needs and concerns of sexual
assault victims to ensure services are delivered in a timely and non-judgmental manner. This
victim-centered approach includes:






ensuring the victim’s safety is the top priority;
respecting the integrity, choices, and autonomy of each victim;
protecting the victim’s privacy and confidential information;
identifying and responding to the obstacles some victims may face when seeking help;
and
recognizing the importance of victim feedback in improving responses to sexual assault.

These Standards serve as a foundation for establishing county policies and procedures that give
precedence to the well-being of the victim, while also being mindful of the specific needs of the
county’s population and its local resources.
However, because of the unique nature of each sexual assault incident, situations may arise that
will require the use of discretion in developing a tailored response that appropriately addresses
both the individual victim’s needs and the public safety concerns.
Likewise, because New Jersey is home to many diverse ethnic and cultural populations, issues
unique to these diverse populations may impact a sexual assault victim’s ability to effectively
access the services provided for in these Standards. Therefore, it is important that local agencies
recognize these barriers and afford necessary accommodations to address them.

-ii-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

History
In 1997, a Sexual Assault Protocol Council was convened with the support of Violence Against
Women Act (VAWA) funds awarded to the Division of Criminal Justice. The Council included
representatives from law enforcement, sexual violence services organizations, and the nursing
and medical professions.
The Council’s mandate was to develop statewide standards for providing services to victims of
sexual assault. The use of a “victim-centered” approach became the guiding principle of the
Council in their development of standardized protocols. The Council defined a victim-centered
approach as “the systematic focus on the needs and concerns of a sexual assault victim to
ensure the compassionate and sensitive delivery of services in a non-judgmental manner.”
In 1998, the Office of the Attorney General issued the Council’s recommendations in New
Jersey’s first Attorney General Standards for Providing Services to Victims of Sexual Assault. The
objective of the first Standards was to improve the provision of services to sexual assault
victims by coordinating the efforts of healthcare providers, confidential sexual violence
advocates, and law enforcement.
In 2001, a permanent Attorney General Sexual Assault Response Team/Sexual Assault Nurse
Examiner (SART/SANE1) Coordinating Council was established pursuant to N.J.S.A. 52:4B-50 to
-60. In 2003, at the Attorney General’s direction, the Coordinating Council created a
subcommittee to review and revise the existing Standards.
The First Edition of the Standards, issued in 1998, created the foundation for a coordinated
victim-centered approach. The Second Edition of the Standards, issued in 2004, included best
practices learned in the field. This, the Third Edition, updates the Standards to address changes
in the law and policy. It also includes advances in evidence-based practices and incorporates
experiences gained since 2004.

Contributors
The following agencies, represented by the below individuals, served on the Working Group
tasked with updating these Standards. Through a collective commitment to and respect for the
process, the below stakeholders improved the Standards through their respective expertise and
thoughtful input.
CORE WORKING GROUP MEMBERS
Department of Law and Public Safety, Division of Criminal Justice (DCJ)
Jennifer Stonerod
Assistant Attorney General and Chief of Staff

1

SANEs are now referred to as Forensic Nurse Examiners (FNEs).

-iii-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Department of Law and Public Safety, DCJ, State Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Kara Webster
Deputy Attorney General
Department of Law and Public Safety, Division of State Police, Victim Services Unit
Maggie-Lou Mari
Investigator
Sergeant First Class Joseph Wolf
Unit Head
Department of Law and Public Safety, Division of State Police, Office of Forensic Sciences
Tracey Pursell
Forensic Scientist
Department of Children and Families, Division on Women
Jacqueline Sanchez-Perez, MSW, LSW
Deputy Director
The New Jersey Coalition Against Sexual Assault (NJCASA)
Patricia Teffenhart
Executive Director
The County Prosecutors Association of New Jersey
Meg Rodriguez
Supervising Assistant Prosecutor of the Sex Crimes/Child Endangerment Unit
Morris County Prosecutor’s Office
*Designee of the President of the County Prosecutors Association of New Jersey
The New Jersey Victim Witness-Coordinators’ Association
Lori Craig, Former President
Victim Witness Coordinator
Warren County Prosecutor’s Office
The New Jersey Board of Nursing
Dorothy Smith Carolina
Executive Director (former)
The New Jersey Forensic Nurse Examiner (FNE) Coordinators’ Association
Eileen Caraker RN, MSN, FN-CSA, SANE-A, SANE-P
Sexual Assault Response Team/FNE Coordinator
Gloucester County Prosecutor’s Office

-iv-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Lynne Rybicki, RN, FN-CSA, SANE-A, SANE-P
Sexual Assault Response Team/FNE Coordinator
Cape May County Prosecutor’s Office
Center for Family Services, Services Empowering Rights of Victims
Regina Ridge
Associate Vice President
Victim Services and Adult Residential Services
Administrative Office of the Courts (AOC)
Joanne M. Dietrich
Assistant Director of Family Practice Division
*Designee of Honorable Glenn A. Grant, J.A.D., Administrative Director (Acting)
INVITED WORKING GROUP MEMBERS
Manavi, Inc.
Prashanti Vasagiri
Advocate and Legal Program Coordinator
The New Jersey Sex Crimes Officers’ Association
Sgt. Sandra Rodriguez
Ocean County Prosecutor’s Office
The New Jersey State Association of Chiefs of Police
Robert Kugler
Chief of Police
Saddle Brook Police Department
*Past President and Current Designee of the New Jersey State Association of Chiefs of Police
International Association of Chiefs of Police
Paul Cell, Association President
Chief of Police
Montclair State University Police Department

-v-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION.................................................................................................................................... ii
SEXUAL ASSAULT RESPONSE TEAM (SART) OVERVIEW ........................................................ 1
DEFINITIONS ........................................................................................................................................... 2
STANDARDS ............................................................................................................................................ 5
Standard 1:

CONFIDENTIAL SEXUAL ASSAULT ADVOCACY.................................... 5

Standard 2:

LAW ENFORCEMENT ...................................................................................... 7

Standard 3:

STANDARDIZED SEXUAL ASSAULT MEDICAL
FORENSIC EXAM AND TREATMENT ........................................................ 11

Standard 4:

SAFE KITS .......................................................................................................... 14

Standard 5:

EXAMINATION FACILITIES ......................................................................... 17

Standard 6:

SPECIALIZED SERVICES FOR CHILD AND
ADOLESCENT VICTIMS ................................................................................ 20

Standard 7:

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR VULNERABLE
POPULATIONS ................................................................................................ 21

Standard 8:

DISCHARGE AND REFERRAL INFORMATION....................................... 24

Standard 9:

ASSESSMENT OF SART SERVICES BY VICTIMS AND
SERVICE PROVIDERS ..................................................................................... 25

Standard 10: PROSECUTION ................................................................................................ 26
Standard 11: SART TEAM TRAINING ................................................................................. 28
Standard 12: COUNTY SART ADVISORY BOARDS ......................................................... 29
Standard 13: STATEWIDE SART ADVISORY BOARD ..................................................... 31
Standard 14: SART COMPLAINT PROCEDURES ............................................................. 33
APPENDICES ........................................................................................................................................A-1
I.

RELEVANT AGENCIES .............................................................................................A-2

II.

SEXUAL OFFENSES....................................................................................................A-5

III.

SEXUAL ASSAULT VICTIM’S RIGHT TO A CONFIDENTIAL
SEXUAL VIOLENCE ADVOCATE ........................................................................A-10

IV.

VICTIM-COUNSELOR PRIVILEGE FOR CONFIDENTIAL
SEXUAL VIOLENCE ADVOCATES .......................................................................A-11

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

V.

SEXUAL ASSAULT OF MILITARY PERSONNEL ...............................................A-12

VI.

MINOR SEXUAL ASSAULT VICTIMS’ RIGHT TO CONSENT TO
MEDICAL CARE AND SEXUAL ASSAULT MEDICAL
FORENSIC EXAMINATIONS .................................................................................A-14

VII.

MANDATORY CHILD ABUSE REPORTING ......................................................A-16

VIII.

STANDARDS FOR SERVICES TO CRIME VICTIMS ..........................................A-17

IX.

STATEWIDE FORENSIC NURSE EXAMINER LEGISLATION.........................A-22

X.

SEXUAL ASSAULT RESPONSE TEAM LEGISLATION .....................................A-25

XI.

PROTECTION ORDERS FOR SEXUAL ASSAULT VICTIMS ............................A-26

XII.

SEXUAL ASSAULT SURVIVOR PROTECTION ACT (SASPA) ........................A-28

XIII.

ATTORNEY GENERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT DIRECTIVE NO.
2011-1 - REVISION.....................................................................................................A-32

XIV.

FEEDBACK FORM ....................................................................................................A-38

XV.

COUNTY SART ACTIVATION MEMBER SURVEY ...........................................A-41

XVI.

SEXUAL ASSAULT RESPONSE TEAM (SART) ACTIVATION
PROCESS SCRIPT ......................................................................................................A-43

XVII. STATEWIDE AND GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES ...........................................A-45
XVIII. FORENSIC NURSING PROGRAMS BY COUNTY ..............................................A-47
XIX.

VICTIM WITNESS ADVOCACY OFFICES BY COUNTY ...................................A-49

XX.

CONFIDENTIAL SEXUAL VIOLENCE SERVICES
ORGANIZATIONS BY COUNTY ...........................................................................A-51

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

SEXUAL ASSAULT RESPONSE TEAM (SART) OVERVIEW
N.J.S.A. 52:4B-50 to -60 mandates every County Prosecutor’s Office establish a SART and a
SART Advisory Board.
The Sexual Assault Response Team (SART) provides a coordinated response to victims of
sexual assault. The SART is comprised of the following members:
 a law enforcement officer;
 a confidential sexual violence advocate (CSVA); and
 a forensic nurse examiner (FNE) or sexual assault examiner.
A victim of sexual assault is eligible for the services of the SART when:
 the victim is 13 years of age or older;2
 the assault occurred within the past five days;3 and
 the victim consents to a SART activation.
If a victim fits the above criteria and presents at a healthcare facility, a sexual violence service
organization, or a law enforcement agency, the victim shall be personally informed about the
availability of the specialized services of the SART by either a SART member or a representative
of the healthcare facility, sexual violence service organization, or law enforcement agency.
A SART activation occurs when the victim chooses to engage with one, two, or all three
members of the SART. The requested on-call SART member(s) will be activated according to
county protocol, and shall respond within one hour or less.
The first responding SART member shall ensure that the coordinated response of a SART
activation is properly explained to the victim through the use of the SART Activation Script (See
Appendix XVI), which describes the services offered by each SART member and provides the
victim with the option to choose any, all, or none of the services offered by the three SART
members.
Every county’s SART program is overseen by a SART Coordinator who ensures a coordinated,
multi-disciplinary response in accordance with these Standards. Additionally, each county has
an FNE Coordinator, who oversees the FNEs and ensures there is always 24/7 on-call coverage.
Oftentimes, the SART and FNE Coordinator is the same individual.

Services will be made available for victims under 13 in accordance with Standard 6: Specialized
Services for Child and Adolescent Victims.
3 Unless, after consulting the FNE Coordinator, it is determined that the circumstances would warrant a
medical forensic exam to be conducted after the five-day window.
2

-1-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

DEFINITIONS
ADULT
An individual who is 18 years of age or older.

ADOLESCENT
An individual who is at least 13 years of age but less than 18 years of age. Adolescents are
eligible for a full range of services by the SART. Current New Jersey law requires that before
any sexual assault medical forensic examination of an adolescent is performed, parental
notification is required, unless it is determined it is not in the best interest of the victim. See
N.J.S.A. 9:17A-4.

CHILD
An individual who is under the age of 13 years old. A child is not eligible for services of the
SART, however, children aged 12 and under may receive an emergent sexual assault medical
forensic examination.

CONFIDENTIAL SEXUAL VIOLENCE ADVOCATE (CSVA)
An individual who has completed the statutory (N.J.S.A. 2A:84A-22.14) minimum hours of
Sexual Violence Advocacy training that has been approved by the Division on Women and the
New Jersey Coalition Against Sexual Assault (NJCASA), and who is currently under the
supervision of a Sexual Violence Service Organization funded by the Division on Women
(DOW).

DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY
A developmental disability is any condition that is attributable to a mental or physical
impairment, or combination of the two. It manifests before age 22, is likely to continue
indefinitely, and results in substantial functional limitations in three or more of the following
areas of major life activities: self-care; receptive and expressive language; learning, mobility;
self-direction; and capacity for independent living. Developmental disabilities, include, but are
not limited to the following: autism spectrum disorder; hearing loss; vision loss; muscular
dystrophy; cerebral palsy; spina bifida; fragile X syndrome; Tourette’s syndrome; and fetal
alcohol spectrum disorders.

FORENSIC NURSE EXAMINER (FNE)
A Registered Professional Nurse (RN) licensed in the State of New Jersey, specially educated to
provide comprehensive care to sexual assault victims, who demonstrates competence in
conducting a sexual assault medical forensic examination, and has been certified by the New
Jersey Board of Nursing as Forensic Nurse–Certified Sexual Assault (FN-CSA).

-2-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
An individual who is sworn and empowered by the State of New Jersey to conduct
investigations and make arrests for any offense enumerated in the New Jersey Criminal Code.

PENETRATION
Sexual penetration means vaginal intercourse, cunnilingus, fellatio, or anal intercourse between
persons or insertion of the hand, finger, or object into the anus or vagina, either by the actor or
upon the actor’s instruction. The depth of insertion shall not be relevant as to the question of
commission of the crime. N.J.S.A. 2C:14-1(c).

SEXUAL VIOLENCE SERVICES
The following services are provided by all Sexual Violence Organizations: a 24-hour hotline for
crisis intervention and information; CSVA to accompany victims during medical treatment, law
enforcement interviews, and court appearances; individual and group counseling; and referrals.
These services are available to victims 13 years of age and older. Additional services are also
available to family members and significant others regardless of the victim’s age. All sexual
violence services are available regardless of when the incident occurred. Victims may request
these services even in situations where they have declined medical care and/or notification of
law enforcement. All sexual violence services are confidential and free of charge. See N.J.S.A.
2A:84A-22.15.

SEXUAL ASSAULT
Any conduct proscribed by N.J.S.A. 2C:14-2(a)(1) through (7), N.J.S.A. 2C:14-2(b), and N.J.S.A.
2C:14-2(c)(1) through (4) of the New Jersey Criminal Code, including any act of penetration
performed or perpetrated on one person by another under circumstances indicating a lack of
consent, either due to force, or an inability of one party to consent due to age, relationship,
mental defect, or physical incapacitation.

SEXUAL ASSAULT EXAMINER (SAE)
A physician licensed in the State of New Jersey, who is specially trained to provide
comprehensive care to sexual assault victims, demonstrates competency in conducting a sexual
assault medical forensic examination, and has successfully completed a course of education in
treating sexual assault victims.

SEXUAL ASSAULT MEDICAL FORENSIC EXAMINATION
A comprehensive assessment of a sexual assault victim consisting of a history, physical
examination, diagnosis, treatment by medical protocol, and the collection of evidence. Within
the context of the SART activation, these exams will be conducted by a FNE or SAE.

-3-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

SEXUAL ASSAULT RESPONSE TEAM (SART)
A Sexual Assault Response Team consists of a FNE, a CSVA, and a law enforcement officer.
Victims choose the SART team members who will be activated to assist them. In New Jersey,
SART services are available to individuals 13 years of age and older who disclose an incident of
sexual assault within five days of when the incident occurred.

SEXUAL ASSAULT RESPONSE TEAM (SART) ACTIVATION
A SART activation occurs when ANY member of the SART is requested by the victim. As noted
above, the SART may be activated by the request of victims aged 13 years and older who have
disclosed the incident within five days of its occurrence.

SEXUAL CONTACT
Any conduct proscribed by N.J.S.A. 2C:14-3(a) or N.J.S.A. 2C:14-3(b) of the New Jersey Criminal
Code, including acts of intentional touching performed or perpetrated on one person by another
under circumstances indicating a lack of consent, either due to force, or an inability of one party
to consent due to age, relationship, mental defect, or physical incapacitation, to degrade or
humiliate the victim or sexually arouse or sexually gratify the actor.

VICTIM-CENTERED APPROACH
A systematic focus on the individuality of the victim, driven by their needs and concerns, to
ensure the delivery of appropriate, accessible, and culturally-responsive services to a diverse
population of victims.

VICTIM WITNESS ADVOCACY
A statewide program of support and services for victims and witnesses involved with the
criminal justice system. There is a Victim Witness Advocacy Unit located in each County
Prosecutor’s Office and in the NJ Division of Criminal Justice.

-4-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

STANDARDS
Standard 1:

CONFIDENTIAL SEXUAL ASSAULT ADVOCACY

Victims of sexual assault shall be provided the opportunity to have the support of a CSVA prior
to and during all medical and legal proceedings, as well as through the entire healing process.
All healthcare facilities and law enforcement agencies shall provide sexual assault victims with
information about the designated county sexual violence program, regardless of when or where
the incident occurred, or whether the victim has reported the incident to a law enforcement
agency. (See generally N.J.S.A. 52:4B-22).
This information shall be personally conveyed to the victim by a representative of the
healthcare facility before a sexual assault medical forensic examination (medical forensic exam)
is conducted or by a representative of the law enforcement agency before a statement is taken,
unless the victim requires immediate medical attention.
The personal conveyance of information about the local sexual violence program helps the
victim understand the assistance and benefits a CSVA may provide. If the services of a CSVA
are requested by a victim, the healthcare facility or law enforcement agency shall contact the
designated county sexual violence program on the victim’s behalf (See Appendix XX,
Confidential Sexual Violence Services Organization By County).
The activated CSVA will explain their role on the SART and the services provided by the
affiliated-sexual violence program, and provide the victim with the opportunity to speak
privately prior to and during any investigative and sexual assault medical forensic interviews
or procedures. Additionally, at the victim’s request, the CSVA may be present during medical
forensic exams and law enforcement interviews to provide crisis intervention and emotional
support. (See N.J.S.A. 52:4B-52). However, the CSVA shall not participate in evidence collection
or law enforcement interviews, and shall not take notes during these activities.
Law enforcement and the FNE may require that CSVAs provide identifying information,
limited to their first name and last initial, and the name and address of their affiliated sexual
violence program. When needed, further identifying information may be obtained from the
sexual violence program or the CSVA outside the victim’s presence.
The services of the sexual violence program are available to the victim throughout the entire
healing process, the time period of which varies for each victim. The services of the sexual
violence program include, but are not limited to, accompanying the victim to forensic exams,
police stations, and court proceedings, crisis counseling, individual counseling and support
groups, referrals to additional resources, and accompanying the victim to all legal and court
proceedings. The sexual violence program is also available to provide support for nonoffending family members and friends.

-5-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

The CSVA shall:






ensure that the victim is informed of all resources, including those from sexual violence
services, the importance of seeking medical attention, and the value of timely evidence
collection and early reporting to law enforcement;
provide the victim a safe, neutral, and confidential avenue to explore and weigh options;
support the victim’s choices and decisions; and
maintain the confidentiality of all communications occurring solely between the
advocate and the victim, unless otherwise instructed by the victim’s prior written
consent. (See N.J.S.A. 2A:84A-22.15).

-6-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Standard 2:

LAW ENFORCEMENT

Victims of sexual assault shall be provided with thorough, compassionate, and objective
assistance from all law enforcement officers responding to and investigating an incident of
sexual assault.
All Incidents of Reported Sexual Assault
All reported incidents of sexual assault shall be investigated in a thorough, non-judgmental
manner. In every reported incident of sexual assault, law enforcement officers shall first ensure
the victim’s immediate safety and security. Once established, the victim’s needs shall be
assessed, as each victim may respond to their own experience differently.
Some victims may be reluctant to present facts they fear would weaken their credibility, such as
having voluntarily used drugs or alcohol or having consented to some sexual acts. Law
enforcement officers shall inform sexual assault victims that these perceived obstacles in a case
can often be overcome if complete information is presented at the outset of the investigation.
The responding officer shall explain to the victim the role of law enforcement and obtain basic
information about the incident. If the criteria for a SART activation is met, the officer shall
inform the victim about the roles of each SART member, the victim’s right to immediate
medical attention, the value of prompt evidence collection, and the availability of a CSVA. In
addition, the officer shall answer any questions relating to the investigative and legal process.
If the victim chooses to activate any or all members of the SART, the on-call SART members
shall be immediately notified. The responding officer shall provide the other activated SART
members with information necessary to provide services to the victim. In emergent situations
where public safety and/or destruction of evidence are factors, law enforcement shall consult
with the victim and team members to prioritize services.
Where a victim chooses to activate a CSVA, law enforcement shall contact the sexual violence
program and provide the victim with information about its services. (See N.J.S.A. 52:4B-22(b)).
The victim has the right to talk privately with the CSVA and have the CSVA present prior to
and during any law enforcement interview, medical treatment, or evidence collection
procedure. Law enforcement shall recognize that private communications between the victim
and the CSVA are privileged and confidential. (See N.J.S.A. 2A:84A-22.15).
When the victim requests a CVSA’s presence during a law enforcement interview, the CSVA
will be asked to provide their first name and last initial, and the name and address of the
affiliated sexual violence program. When needed, further identifying information may be
obtained from the sexual violence program or the CSVA outside the victim’s presence. For
example, a CSVA may be asked to furnish a driver’s license or other valid I.D. to enter a
building or to have an entry in the Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) system created to
document who has entered and exited the premises.

-7-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

If a victim does not qualify for a SART response, the victim remains entitled to, and should be
offered, a complete law enforcement investigation and a CVSA’s services, regardless of when or
where the incident occurred. This is similarly true if a victim chooses not to have a medical
forensic exam performed, which includes a Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence (SAFE) Kit and a
Drug Facilitated Sexual Assault (DFSA)/Toxicology (Tox) Kit.
Additionally, in cases where Child Protection and Permanency (CP&P) are involved with
victims between the ages of 13 and 18, law enforcement shall provide the victim and their
caseworker with information about the services of a CSVA.
In any case where the victim seeks services in a county other than the one in which the incident
occurred, the law enforcement agency in the reporting county shall facilitate communication
with the law enforcement agency in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred. Law enforcement
in the county where the incident occurred should respond whenever possible.
Victims who elect to undergo a medical forensic exam should never be referred back to the
county of incident to complete a medical forensic exam. These services shall be provided to the
victim regardless of reporting location. The transfer of SAFE and DFSA/Tox Kits can be
arranged after the medical forensic exam by the investigating officer.
However, if timeliness or staffing issues prevent immediate response by the agency with
jurisdiction, a law enforcement officer in the county where the victim seeks services shall
respond and take the initial report and ensure that the chain of custody of any evidence
collected during the examination is preserved.

Sexual Assault Medical Forensic Examination Cases
In all cases where the SART is activated through law enforcement, and the victim choses to have
a medical forensic exam, a law enforcement officer shall accompany the victim to the
examination site and remain with the victim until the requested SART members arrive. The law
enforcement officer shall also inform the victim about their right to have a CSVA present
throughout any interview or medical forensic exam, as well as afford the victim an opportunity
to speak with a CSVA before any interview or medical exam.
Efforts shall be made to direct the victim to a SART-participating healthcare facility. However,
if the victim seeks care at a non-participating healthcare facility and declines the option to seek
services at a SART-participating facility, the emergency department staff may complete a
forensic medical exam.
Non-SART-Participating Healthcare Facility
The investigating officer shall contact the County Prosecutor’s Office to ensure that
emergency department staff has access to a SAFE Kit and a DFSA/Tox Kit. At the
conclusion of the examination, a law enforcement officer shall take custody of the sealed
SAFE Kit and DFSA/Tox Kit and any other evidence collected by the FNE. The officer
shall assist the victim in arranging transportation from the exam site.
-8-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

SART-Participating Healthcare Facility
If the victim seeks care at a SART-participating healthcare facility, a law enforcement
officer shall participate in the initial sexual assault medical forensic interview or the
preliminary interview. To respect the victim’s privacy, the officer shall not be present
during the medical forensic exam except for cases involving a victim in law enforcement
custody or a resident of a psychiatric facility, as warranted.
At the conclusion of the examination, a law enforcement officer shall take custody of the
sealed SAFE Kit and DFSA/Tox Kit and any other evidence collected by the FNE. The
officer shall assist the victim in arranging transportation from the exam site.
The investigating officer shall then arrange for a mutually-agreed upon time to conduct
the victim’s formal interview.

Five-Year Hold Kits
Pursuant to the Revision of Attorney General Law Enforcement Directive 2011-1, victims who
undergo a medical forensic exam, but choose not report the incident to a law enforcement
agency, may request to have their evidence (e.g. SAFE Kits) “held” for a period of five years.4
Kits elected to be held for the five-year retention period shall be referred to as “Five-Year Hold
Kits.” If the victim is an adult, evidence shall be retained for at least five years. If the victim is a
minor, evidence shall be retained for at least five years after the victim reaches the age of 18.
If a victim chooses to report to law enforcement after initially electing a Five-Year Hold Kit, law
enforcement shall obtain the evidence and schedule a formal interview with the victim
consistent with these Standards.
Where, after the five-year retention period expires and the prosecutor determines to destroy the
SAFE Kit, the prosecutor shall notify the Director of the Division of Criminal Justice, or their
designee, to provide the Division the opportunity to take custody of the Kit and assume
responsibility for its continued retention.

See Attorney General Law Enforcement Directive No. 2011-1 - REVISION, Revisions to Attorney
General Law Enforcement Directive 2011-1 and the Attorney General’s Guidelines for the Retention of
Evidence on Procedures for Retaining Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence (SAFE) Hold Kits and Extending the Time
for Victims to Decide Whether to Report the Crime and Release Collected Forensic Evidence to Law Enforcement,
Appendix XIII.
4

-9-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Incidents of Sexual Assault where the SART is not activated:
There are situations when a victim may report an incident of sexual assault to a law
enforcement agency, but a full SART activation may not be appropriate, such as when the
following circumstances occur:

1.

Victim reports the incident more than five days after the sexual assault occurred.
In cases where the victim reports the incident more than five days after it has occurred, a
medical forensic exam will not ordinarily be performed. Nonetheless, the victim is
entitled to and should be offered the services of a CSVA, medical referrals, and a
complete law enforcement investigation.

2.

Victim is under the age of 13.
In cases where the victim is under 13-years old, the appropriate response is to use the
child sexual abuse activation protocol of acute cases established by the County
Prosecutor’s Office. (See Standard 6: Specialized Services for Child and Adolescent
Victims).
While CSVAs are not involved in acute child abuse responses, they are available to offer
support services to non-offending family members of all child and adolescent victims,
regardless of the child victim’s age or when and where the assault occurred.

-10-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Standard 3:

STANDARDIZED SEXUAL ASSAULT MEDICAL
FORENSIC EXAM AND TREATMENT

Healthcare professionals shall provide every victim of sexual assault a thorough, compassionate,
and timely examination, as well as related services.
Sexual assault victims may seek medical attention at any healthcare facility; however, the
specialized services of the SART are only accessible at a SART-participating facility. There is no
fee for services associated with the medical forensic exam, pursuant to N.J.S.A 52:4B-52(k).
All victims of sexual assault who are 13 years of age or older and disclose a sexual assault
within five days of when the incident occurred shall be offered a medical forensic exam.
Victims who disclose a sexual assault more than five days after the assault may, but will not
routinely, undergo a medical forensic exam.
All victims of sexual assault shall also be given the opportunity to discuss their medical
condition, treatment options, and medical referral plan privately with the FNE, sexual assault
examiner, or emergency department healthcare provider throughout the medical forensic exam
and related treatment.
All medical forensic exams performed in New Jersey, including those performed at agencies
that are not SART-participating facilities, should use the SAFE Kit and the DFSA/Tox Kit, where
warranted. The County Prosecutor’s Office shall make these kits available to the emergency
department of every healthcare facility in its county on an as needed basis.
Each County SART program shall have an FNE Coordinator who supervises, educates, and
evaluates the services provided by FNEs, which include the performance of medical forensic
exams.
FNEs must be registered professional nurses or physicians who have completed an educational
program that meets the certification guidelines established by the Attorney General, the New
Jersey Board of Nursing, and the International Association of Forensic Nurses (IAFN). FNEs
must also be certified as a FN-CSA. (See Appendix IX, Statewide Forensic Nurse Examiner
Legislation, N.J.S.A. 52:4B-53).
It is recommended that all healthcare personnel, even if not providing services as part of an
established SART, complete an educational program in the care and treatment of sexual assault
victims. These educational programs should meet or exceed the training standards established
by IAFN or the American College of Emergency Physicians (ACEP).
New Jersey law also requires the healthcare facility to inform sexual assault victims about
emergency contraception and dispense contraception, if requested and warranted. (See N.J.A.C.
8:43G-12A-4). In accordance with the ACEP’s policy on the Evaluation and Management of
Sexually Assaulted or Sexually Abused Patients, it is recommended that healthcare providers

-11-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

ensure that every victim is offered information about sexually-transmitted infections and/or
diseases, and available treatment options.5
Lastly, prior to the medical forensic exam, victims shall be personally informed about the
availability of a CSVA and the services of the local sexual violence program, regardless of when
or where the incident occurred or whether or not the victim has reported the incident to a law
enforcement agency. The victim shall be afforded the opportunity to speak privately with a
CSVA before the performance of a medical forensic exam, as well as afforded the option to have
the CSVA present during the completion of the medical forensic exam.

Consent
The FNE, sexual assault examiner, or emergency department healthcare provider who is
conducting a medical forensic exam and providing care for a sexual assault victim is responsible
for obtaining appropriate written informed consent and continually obtaining verbal consent
from the victim throughout the examination and evidence collection process.
Every adolescent or adult victim of sexual assault has the right to consent or decline a medical
forensic exam. For adolescent victims over age 13, their parents or guardian will be notified.6
No medical forensic exam will be performed without the victim’s informed consent, regardless
of the wishes of any SART member, healthcare facility staff member, or the victim’s parents,
guardian, spouse, family members, or friends.
For child victims of sexual assault who are under the age of 13 years old, refer to Standard 6:
Specialized Services for Child and Adolescent Victims. The healthcare facility must contact
Child Protection and Permanency (CP&P) and the municipal police department where the
incident occurred or the County Prosecutor’s Office.
Where the victim is unable to consent due to temporary mental incapacity, no medical forensic
exam will be performed until the victim is able to give informed consent to the exam. In cases
where the victim is unable to consent due to permanent mental incapacity, the consent of the
victim’s healthcare representative shall be obtained prior to the initiation of the exam. For
purposes of this document, “healthcare representative” refers to the individual designated by
the patient or recognized by the healthcare facility as able to consent to care for that patient (See
Standard 7: Special Considerations for Vulnerable Populations).

Additionally, the Center for Disease Control recommends prophylaxis for sexually transmitted diseases
(STDs) and an evaluation for risk of HIV for patients reporting a sexual assault.
http://www.cdc.gov/std/treatment/2010/STD-Treatment-2010-RR5912.pdf#page=93.
6 See Appendix VI, Minor Sexual Assault Victims’ Right to Consent to Medical Care and Sexual Assault
Forensic Examinations, N.J.S.A. 9:17A-4.
5

-12-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

The FNE, sexual assault examiner, or emergency department healthcare provider is responsible
for documenting information pertaining to the victim’s report of sexual assault or contact,
obtaining a pertinent medical history, performing the medical forensic exam, ensuring that
necessary medical treatment is provided, providing patient education, and making all necessary
referrals for follow-up care.
At the conclusion of the medical forensic exam, any specimens collected as evidence shall be
packaged and secured in a manner to ensure the integrity of each specimen and the appropriate
chain of custody. It is recommended that healthcare facilities work cooperatively with the
County Prosecutor’s Office to develop a written protocol to ensure proper handling of any
identified and collected evidence.
Where a victim chooses to report a sexual assault to law enforcement, the FNE Coordinator
shall provide the following information to the County Prosecutor’s Office of Victim Witness
Advocacy within three business days following a medical forensic exam:
1. The victim’s name;
2. The victim’s contact information;
3. The responding law enforcement agency’s contact information; and
4. The date of the sexual assault.7
This dissemination of information will enable the County Office of Victim Witness Advocacy to
begin assisting the victim immediately. The Victim Witness Advocate assigned to the case will
explain the criminal justice system and prepare the victim for the next steps in the process,
provide referrals to continuous support services, and familiarize the victim with their staff.

This provision does not preempt individual county protocols that otherwise provide the above
information to the county victim witness coordinator within the three business days.
7

-13-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Standard 4:

SAFE KITS

All victims of sexual assault shall be advised of the time sensitive nature of a medical forensic
exam and the importance of a SAFE Kit and a DFSA/Tox Kit.
Every victim of sexual assault, age 13 or older, who reports the incident within five days of
when it occurred, is entitled to request a medical forensic exam to identify injuries and collect
forensic evidence.
SAFE Kits and DFSA/Tox Kits are specifically designed to collect and preserve physical
evidence yielded from the medical forensic exam, which can be used in a criminal sexual assault
investigation.
Whenever possible, examining and collecting evidence through SAFE and DFSA/Tox Kits, shall
be completed by individuals who have specialized training in examining adolescent and adult
victims of sexual assault.
All victims have the right to consent or to decline any part of the medical forensic exam or
decline to have one conducted entirely. The informed written consent of the victim shall be
obtained prior to initiating any examination and shall be obtained orally by the victim
throughout the examination and evidence collection process.
In a situation where the victim is unable to consent due to permanent mental incapacity, the
consent of the victim’s healthcare representative shall be obtained prior to performing the
examination. (See Standard 7: Special Considerations for Vulnerable Populations).
In a situation where the victim is a minor, please consult Standard 6: Specialized Services for
Child and Adolescent Victims, as well as N.J.S.A. 9:17A-4.
The County Prosecutor’s Office shall make available, through the County SART/FNE
Coordinator, SAFE Kits, DFSA/Tox Kits, and accompanying forms to every emergency
healthcare facility in the county. Kits shall be kept on-site and may only be used for medical
forensic exams.
Every medical forensic exam, regardless of the jurisdiction in which the crime is reported to
have occurred, should be completed using the SAFE Kit, Sexual Assault Forensic Examination
Report, supplemental body diagrams, and the DFSA/Tox Kit and Form, when appropriate.
The healthcare provider who conducts the examination shall decide which specimens should be
collected in each case based on the history and circumstances of the incident, as reported by the
victim.
At the conclusion of the medical forensic exam, the evidence collected shall be packaged and
secured in a manner to ensure the integrity of each specimen and to maintain the appropriate
chain of custody, in accordance with a county’s procedure.

-14-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Five-Year Hold Kits
Pursuant to the Revision of Attorney General Law Enforcement Directive 2011-1, victims who
undergo a medical forensic exam, but choose not report the incident to a law enforcement
agency, may request to have their evidence (e.g. SAFE Kits) “held” for a period of five years.8
Kits elected to be held for the five-year retention period shall be referred to as “Five-Year Hold
Kits.” If the victim is an adult, evidence shall be retained for at least five years. If the victim is a
minor, evidence shall be retained for at least five years after the victim reaches the age of 18.
In the event a victim chooses to report to law enforcement after initially electing a Five-Year
Hold Kit, law enforcement shall obtain the evidence and schedule a formal interview with the
victim consistent with these Standards.
Where, after the five-year retention period expires and the prosecutor determines to destroy the
SAFE Kit, the prosecutor shall notify the Director of the Division of Criminal Justice, or their
designee, to provide the Division the opportunity to take custody of the Kit and assume
responsibility for its continued retention.

Mandatory County Procedures
Each county shall have a policy and procedure, in accordance with these Standards and
Attorney General Law Enforcement Directive No. 2011-1, to provide for the following:
I.

The preservation of evidence to allow victims time in which to decide if they will
release this evidence to a law enforcement agency.
 Victims who do not report to a law enforcement agency at the time of their
medical forensic exam may choose to have their SAFE Kit held for a five-year
period.
 These “held” kits shall be referred to as “Five-Year Hold Kits.”
 A Five-Year Hold Kit shall be retained for a minimum of five years.
 For victims who are minors, the five-year retention period begins on the date the
victim reaches 18 years of age.
 To ensure victims’ privacy in the preservation and storage of the Five-Year Hold
Kits (and applicable records), only case numbers and dates shall be used as
identifiers.

See Attorney General Law Enforcement Directive No. 2011-1 - REVISION, Revisions to Attorney
General Law Enforcement Directive 2011-1 and the Attorney General’s Guidelines for the Retention of
Evidence on Procedures for Retaining Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence (SAFE) Hold Kits and Extending the Time
for Victims to Decide Whether to Report the Crime and Release Collected Forensic Evidence to Law Enforcement,
Appendix XIII.
8

-15-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT



II.

In collaboration with the FNE Coordinator, a method for victims to release FiveYear Hold Kits (and applicable records) to a law enforcement agency shall be
devised.
The preservation, storage, and retention of SAFE, DFSA/Tox, and Five-Year Hold Kits
to maintain integrity of evidence and follow the proper chain of custody, including:
 storing ALL kits (Five-Year Hold Kits and those released to law enforcement for
testing) in accordance with the County Prosecutor’s Office’s evidence retention
guidelines;
o SAFE Kits shall be maintained in dry storage.
o DFSA/Tox Kits shall be maintained in refrigerated storage.


III.

9

retaining and preserving ALL kits (Five-Year Hold Kits and those released to law
enforcement for testing) for the minimum retention period required by
applicable laws, regulations, and directives.
o Five-Year Hold Kits: five years, and where the victim is a minor, not less
than five years after the victim reaches the age of 18.9
o All Kits Released to Law Enforcement: For as long as the crime remains
unsolved or the person convicted of that crime remains in custody.
(N.J.S.A. 2A:84-32e).

The return of the victims’ personal items collected during the medical forensic
examination, if they are requested by the victim and are no longer needed as
evidence. (See N.J.S.A. 52:4B-44(18)).

Id.

-16-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Standard 5:

EXAMINATION FACILITIES

All victims of sexual assault shall be provided with a medical forensic exam and treatment in a
timely, compassionate, and respectful manner.
Examination Facilities
Sexual assault victims may seek medical attention at any healthcare facility. However, the
specialized services of an FNE are only accessible at SART-participating healthcare facilities.
Adult victims of sexual assault who are eligible for SART services have the option of obtaining
these services without reporting the incident to law enforcement. And although incidents of
adult sexual assault that do not involve the use of a weapon or result in certain injuries (N.J.S.A.
2C:58-8) are not required to be reported to any law enforcement agency by hospital personnel,
special reporting requirements do exist for juvenile, disabled, and elderly victims. (See
Standards 6 and 7).
All healthcare personnel who provide care or information to victims of sexual assault must
complete mandatory training to ensure medically and factually accurate and objective
information about emergency contraception and sexually transmitted infections/diseases is
given to all victims of sexual assault. Further, the law requires emergency healthcare facilities
to dispense complete emergency contraception to sexual assault victims when medically
appropriate. (See N.J.A.C. 8:43G-12A-4).
There is no fee for services associated with the medical forensic examination at any New Jersey
healthcare facility pursuant to N.J.S.A. 52:4B-52(k). These services include the following:
routine medical screening; medications for prophylaxis of some sexually transmitted
infections/diseases; pregnancy tests; and emergency contraception, supplies, equipment, and
use of space. Victims requiring emergency healthcare services beyond the scope of the medical
forensic examination may be charged pursuant to hospital policy for any services provided.
Every healthcare facility must provide sexual assault victims with information about the
services of the local sexual violence program, as well as afford the victim an opportunity to
contact a CSVA and determine if they would like the assistance of a CSVA prior to and during
any medical procedures. (See N.J.S.A. 52:4B-22(b)). If the services of a CSVA are requested, the
healthcare facility shall contact the sexual violence agency on the victim’s behalf.
Victims shall also be provided with information about the County Office of Victim Witness
Advocacy, the Victims of Crime Compensation Office (VCCO), and a VCCO application form
for potential reimbursement for fees associated with their victimization. Victims shall be
informed that VCCO benefits are only eligible to those victims who report the crime to law
enforcement.

-17-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

SART-Participating Examination Facilities
Every County Prosecutor’s Office must affiliate with at least one healthcare facility in its county
to participate in the SART Program. Sexual assault victims shall be afforded access to SARTparticipating facilities for a full range of services including, but not limited to, medical forensic
exams, CSVA, and law enforcement assistance.
Each participating facility shall:
 provide interview and treatment areas that afford the victim privacy and security, a
private bathroom, access to a shower facility, and a clean change of clothing following
the medical forensic exam. If the designated examination area is not located in the
Emergency Department, procedures shall be established to ensure that every victim has
access to emergency services as needed;
 keep at least one secured, sealed SAFE Kit and at least one secured, sealed DFSA/Tox kit
on the premises at all times. Both kits shall be supplied by the County Prosecutor’s
Office at no charge to the facility;
 establish written procedures to ensure the integrity of the SAFE Kit and DFSA/Tox Kit,
the secure storage and/or transfer of evidence, and the proper chain of custody;
 employ measures to ensure the safety, security, and cleanliness of all medical forensic
equipment used during the medical forensic exam. This medical forensic equipment
may only be used by the FNE conducting a medical forensic exam; and
 establish a procedure to ensure the confidentiality and security of medical forensic exam
records, which must be stored separately from the victim’s medical records. To protect
the victim’s privacy, it is recommended that each facility establish a policy requiring the
use of standardized terminology such as “Forensic Evaluation” or “Forensic Nurse
Examiner Evaluation” to be used by all personnel creating or maintaining medical
records of these cases. The FNE Coordinator shall securely hold the case paperwork,
documentation, photographs, and supplemental diagrams in their office.
All SART-participating facilities are required to work cooperatively with the SART to ensure
that emergency department personnel and first responders are educated regarding SART
policies and procedures.
In the event an FNE is unavailable to perform the medical forensic exam, the FNE Coordinator
should be contacted to determine a care plan for the victim to receive a medical forensic exam.

Non-Participating Examination Facilities
A non-participating facility shall offer victims of sexual assault information about the County
SART program and the specialized services available, and afford the victim the opportunity to
seek those services. The non-participating facility should also have a policy and procedure to
ensure a victim is able to seek a medical forensic exam and related services at a SART-

-18-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

participating facility. Before a patient is discharged or transferred to a participating facility, all
Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA)10 requirements must be met.
If a victim is unable or unwilling to seek services at a participating facility, the hospital may
request a SAFE Kit and DFSA/Tox Kit from the County Prosecutor’s Office so that a trained
professional healthcare provider may collect and preserve evidence from the victim.
At the conclusion of the examination, a law enforcement officer shall take custody of the sealed
SAFE Kit and/or DFSA/Tox Kit.
Victims shall not be charged for the medical forensic exam, prophylactic medication, or the
SAFE Kit and/or DFSA/Tox Kit. (N.J.S.A 52:4B-52(k)). However, the victim shall be charged
pursuant to hospital policy for any services provided beyond this scope. Victims shall be
informed of the services of the VCCO and given an application form for potential
reimbursement for fees associated with their victimization.
It is recommended that each non-participating facility:
 provide interview and treatment areas that afford the victim privacy and security, a
private bathroom, access to a shower facility, and a clean change of clothing following
the medical forensic exam;
 keep the SAFE Kit and DFSA/Tox Kit in the custody of the examiner until such time that
it is transferred to a sworn law enforcement officer;
 establish a procedure to ensure the confidentiality and security of the entire medical
record, in addition to the medical forensic examination record; and
 work cooperatively with the County SART Coordinator to ensure that emergency
department personnel and first responders are informed about the SART’s policies and
procedures.

10

42 U.S.C. § 1395dd.

-19-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Standard 6:

SPECIALIZED SERVICES FOR CHILD AND
ADOLESCENT VICTIMS

Healthcare personnel, law enforcement officers, and CSVAs shall ensure that all child and
adolescent victims of sexual assault and their families are treated with compassion and respect.
All services shall be provided in a manner that is specific to the physical, emotional, and
developmental needs of the child or adolescent.
Whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that a person under the age of 18 has been
sexually assaulted or sexually contacted by someone who has assumed responsibility for the
care, custody, or control of the child, CP&P shall be contacted.
Under these circumstances, CP&P shall contact law enforcement and make appropriate medical
and counseling referrals, including, but not limited to, the Regional Diagnostic and Treatment
Center, and the designated county sexual violence program. In these cases, the medical forensic
exam, if collected, will be forwarded to law enforcement.
Every county shall have protocols developed for the medical forensic evaluation of child and
adolescent (minor) victims of sexual assault/contact that are in accordance with these Standards
and additional policies and/or best practices that have been incorporated into a county’s
standard operating procedure for child interviews. Forensic interviews of minor victims must
be video and audio recorded, following county protocols.
Pursuant to the consent and cooperation of the parent/guardian (non-offending) or CP&P, and
the cooperation of the minor victim of sexual assault/contact, the minor victim shall have a
medical forensic exam. When a minor victim, who, in the judgment of the treating healthcare
professional, appears to have been sexually assaulted, the consent given by the minor for a
medical forensic exam is valid and binding as if the minor were an adult. (See N.J.S.A. 9:17A-4).
The minor’s parents or guardians must be notified immediately about the medical forensic
exam, unless the treating healthcare professional reasonably believes that it is in the best
interest of the minor-patient not to do so. However, an inability of the healthcare professional
to locate or notify the parents or guardian shall not preclude the performance of a medical
forensic exam on the minor.
Services for child victims of sexual assault under age 13 and non-offending caregivers should be
provided by professionals who are trained in the treatment of child sexual abuse.
Minor victims and their families should be referred for medical follow-up care and counseling
services to the Regional Diagnostic and Treatment Center, the county’s Child Advocacy Center,
the designated county sexual violence program, or any other appropriate service provider.
Minor victims age 13 or older, and their families, must be offered the services of the designated
county sexual violence program. Law enforcement shall provide information about the services
of a CSVA, who may also offer support services to non-offending family members of all child
and adolescent victims, regardless of the child’s age or when and where the assault occurred.

-20-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Standard 7:

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR VULNERABLE
POPULATIONS

The special needs of vulnerable victims shall be recognized and addressed by law enforcement
officers, healthcare providers, and CSVAs.
Several populations of adolescents and adults are especially vulnerable to sexual assault.
Individuals with physical, developmental, intellectual, sensory, mental, cognitive, and/or
emotional disabilities are at a substantially higher risk of sexual assault victimization than
individuals without disabilities. These individuals may live independently, with family, or they
may be residents of skilled nursing facilities/nursing homes, assisted living facilities, or
community-based group homes. In some cases, sexual assault can be perpetrated by those in
caretaking positions.
Other individuals who may be vulnerable to sexual assault are those who do not believe they
can access help due to cultural/religious norms, language barriers, and real and/or perceived
fears related to immigration status, incarceration status, sexual orientation/gender identity, or
being a victim of human trafficking.
Additionally, due to the unique structure of the military, victims of sexual assault in the armed
services will face different hurdles than their civilian peers. They will engage with a different
system, with its own reporting options, investigative processes, and prosecutorial procedures.
Therefore, it is important to understand the differences and the sensitivities of this victim
population when providing them services. Please consult Appendix V, Sexual Assault of
Military Personnel.
SART Coordinators shall ensure that their county’s SART program is informed by the needs of
the specific vulnerable populations present in their county, and that SART activations are
responsive to the different modes of service delivery these populations may require to promote
inclusivity.
SART Coordinators shall also gather information about local community-based resources that
are available to meet the unique needs of vulnerable people living in their county’s communities.
These resources may include the following: victim service agencies; faith-based organizations;
community centers; organizations serving persons with disabilities; county human relations
commissions; adult protective services agencies; and any other organizations providing services
to members of vulnerable populations.
SART training programs shall include information regarding methods of identifying vulnerable
populations, effective communication methods, and mandatory reporting requirements for
vulnerable populations, including, but not limited to:
 CP&P regulations for reporting suspicion of child abuse;
 Adult Protective Services regulations for reporting abuse of vulnerable adults in the
community;

-21-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT




Office of the Ombudsman regulations for reporting abuse of patients residing in nursing
homes and institutions; and
Division of Developmental Disabilities (DDD) regulations for reporting abuse of
individuals with disabilities.

SART procedures shall be established to address the communication needs of all victims,
including:
 the availability of interpreters or language lines to communicate with the victim in their
primary language. Family members and friends are not to be used as interpreters;
 sign interpreters for persons who are deaf or hard of hearing; and
 methods of communicating in an effective and developmentally appropriate manner
with persons who have developmental disabilities.
Additionally, SART Training must include information regarding the appropriate mechanism
for ascertaining an individual’s ability to provide consent for medical care, including the
medical forensic exam. Some individuals with certain types of disabilities may not have the
capacity to consent for themselves. Further, some individuals may have language or
communication barriers due to their specific disability.
SART members shall defer to the FNE on issues involving consent. The FNE must have access
to a FNE Coordinator who can assist the nurse in determining the patient’s ability to give
consent and/or legal guardianship issues. In turn, the FNE Coordinator must be able to access
prompt legal advice from the County Prosecutor’s Office on matters of consent.
However, no adolescent or adult victim of sexual assault with a disability will be compelled to
undergo a medical forensic exam, even in cases where consent has been given by an individual
with legal authority.

Individuals with Disabilities
For individuals with disabilities where consent is an issue, the following state and county
agencies may provide assistance:


County Adult Protective Services
o Serves vulnerable adults in the community and investigates instances of abuse
and neglect.



Division of Disability Services (DDS), New Jersey Department of Human Services
o Serves as a single point of entry for people with disabilities who need
information and/or services within the human services system. DDS works to
streamline access to services and information that promote and enhance
independent living for individuals with all disabilities by facilitating
coordination and cooperation among local, county, and state government
agencies. These programs include home and community-based service
programs, as well as other resource programs.

-22-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

o

11

Provides a variety of services to individuals with developmental disabilities11
(onset before age 21), operates state-run developmental centers and provides
funding for community-based group homes throughout the state. This agency
investigates instances of abuse and neglect in state-run, state-funded, or statelicensed facilities.



Bureau of Guardianship Services (BGS), New Jersey Department of Human Services
o Responsible for processing and tracking guardianship actions for people served
by the DDD who have been evaluated according to state law and determined to
require a guardian. BGS is only able to serve individuals who have been
determined by DDD, through its application process, to be eligible for its
services.



New Jersey Department of Human Services, Office of the Ombudsman for the
Institutionalized Elderly
o Investigates allegations of abuse and neglect of people, age 60 and older, living in
nursing homes and other long-term healthcare facilities.



New Jersey Department of Human Services, Division of Aging, Office of the Public
Guardian for Elderly Adults
o Acts as a surrogate decision-maker for residents sixty years of age and older who
have been deemed incapacitated by the Superior Court of New Jersey. The
Public Guardian does not petition to become guardian, but rather accepts judicial
appointments on a discretionary basis.

See Definitions section for the definition of developmental disability.

-23-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Standard 8:

DISCHARGE AND REFERRAL INFORMATION

Every victim of sexual assault shall have the benefit of a discharge plan that addresses medical
follow-up and provides additional resources.
Discharge and referral information may include the following:
 specific medical discharge information;
 recommended follow-up medical care;
 contact information for the local sexual violence program;
 contact information for the FNE Coordinator;
 contact information for the local law enforcement agency;
 contact information for the County Prosecutor’s Office of Victim Witness Advocacy;
 contact information for the Victims of Crime Compensation Office; and
 the Crime Victims Bill of Rights.
Victims shall always have access to transportation home, or to a safe, alternate location,
following a medical forensic exam. For victims who report to law enforcement, a law
enforcement officer shall arrange transportation for the victim. For victims who present at a
healthcare facility and have not reported to law enforcement at the time of the exam, it is
recommended that the healthcare facility have a plan to arrange transportation for the victim.
The FNE and/or the sexual violence program may offer victims the opportunity to consent to
follow-up telephone contact. The purpose of this contact is to evaluate the victim’s well-being
and to offer further opportunities for referrals to follow-up care and services.
Where appropriate, be sure to take the following actions:
 for child and adolescent victims sexually assaulted by family members or caretakers,
CP&P must be notified;
 if the sexual assault occurred in the context of a domestic violence incident, provide the
victim with information regarding their designated county domestic violence program;
and
 provide the victim with information about protective orders for sexual assault and
domestic violence incidents.

-24-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Standard 9:

ASSESSMENT OF SART SERVICES BY VICTIMS AND
SERVICE PROVIDERS

Victims of sexual assault who choose to use the SART’s services shall be afforded an opportunity
to assess the services provided through a victim survey. Participating members of the SART
shall also assess the SART response provided and recommend systems improvements through a
SART member survey.
Ongoing assessment of the SART’s services is crucial to improving the SART activation and
response. Recognizing the value of constructive feedback, this Standard may be updated, from
time to time, to implement different methods of capturing these assessments. However, until
such time these changes occur, the following assessment activities are expected of each County
SART program:


Victim Survey
o At the conclusion of a SART activation, victims shall be provided with a short,
pre-printed anonymous victim survey. The victim will be asked to complete and
return the self-addressed, stamped survey to the County SART Coordinator.
Please use the Feedback Form included in Appendix XIV of these Standards.



SART Member Survey
o At the conclusion of a SART activation, each member who was activated by the
victim shall complete a SART Member Survey form and return it to the County
SART Coordinator within 72 hours. Please use the Activation Survey included in
Appendix XV of these Standards. For emergent issues of concern about either
the victim or the SART activation, please contact the SART Coordinator via
telephone. If the issue pertains to the SART Coordinator, call the Statewide
SART Advisory Board (See Standard 13: Statewide SART Advisory Board). For
non-emergent issues, document the concerns in the SART Member survey.



Compilation of Survey Responses
o Upon receipt and review of the Victim and SART Member Surveys, the SART
Coordinator shall take appropriate action to address any reported issues.
o Results of the SART Surveys and any actions taken to address identified issues
shall then be reported to the County SART Advisory Board at the next regularly
scheduled meeting.
o Aggregate data for all counties shall be provided to the Statewide SART
Advisory Board and the County SART Advisory Boards (See Standard 12:
County SART Advisory Boards and Standard 13: Statewide SART Advisory
Board).

-25-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Standard 10:

PROSECUTION

Recognizing the profound impact that crimes of sexual assault have on both child and adult
victims and their families, prosecutors shall use a victim-centered approach when working with
victims of sexual assault and in handling their cases.
Each County Prosecutor’s Office should have at least one assistant prosecutor with specialized
training in investigating and prosecuting sexual assault cases.
Prosecutor’s Offices shall establish procedures to maintain custody of any forensic evidence
collected during a medical forensic exam conducted within the county. If the victim is
undecided about reporting an incident to law enforcement at the time of the medical forensic
exam, the prosecutor shall establish a procedure for all evidence to be secured for not less than
five years from the examination date; and where the victim is a minor, for not less than five
years after the victim reaches the age of 18.
Effective July 10, 2014, victims who elect to have evidence held shall be contacted by the FNE
Coordinator prior to the end of the retention period. For evidence collected prior to July 10,
2014, the county shall follow county notification procedures in effect at the time the evidence
was collected. This procedure will allow every victim an opportunity to make an informed
decision on whether to release evidence to law enforcement. (See Attorney General Directive
2011-1, Requiring Procedure for Retaining Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence “Hold” Kits and
Extending the Time for Victims to Decide Whether to Report the Crime and Release Collected Evidence to
Law Enforcement Authorities, Appendix XIII).
After the five-year retention period expires, and the prosecutor determines to destroy the SAFE
Kit, the prosecutor shall notify the Director of the Division of Criminal Justice, or their designee,
to provide the Division the opportunity to take custody of the kit and assume responsibility for
its continued retention.
County Prosecutor’s Office personnel shall adhere to the Attorney General Standards to Ensure the
Rights of Crime Victims as codified in N.J.S.A. 52:4B-44 when working with victims of sexual
assault.
The victim of a sexual assault shall be provided an opportunity to discuss their case with the
prosecuting attorney prior to concluding any plea negotiations. (See N.J.S.A. 52:4B-44 and
N.J.S.A. 2C:14-2.1). This input not only gives the victim a stronger voice in the criminal justice
process, but also returns a small amount of control to the victim over their situation. The
prosecuting attorney, however, should be mindful to manage a victim’s expectations about the
resolution of a case, especially when options arise that are better suited for the overall pursuit of
justice, but which may not fully align with the victim’s wishes.
Additionally, when the final disposition of a sexual assault investigation involves a
determination not to prosecute the matter, an assistant prosecutor shall provide the victim with

-26-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

the opportunity to meet with an AP in person to so inform the victim and explain the basis for
that determination.
A victim of sexual assault shall be afforded the services of a victim witness advocate and/or
CSVA for accompaniment at any court proceeding.
In the event the offender is formally charged, indicted, convicted, or adjudicated a delinquent,
the assistant prosecutor or the Victim Witness Coordinator shall ensure that the victim is
advised of the right to obtain a court order requiring the defendant to submit to an approved
serological test for HIV, or any other virus identified as a probable causative agent of Acquired
Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). Additionally, the victim shall be offered assistance and
a referral to obtain an approved serological test for infection with HIV, and appropriate
counseling and medical care. (See N.J.S.A. 52:4B-44(c)(1) and N.J.S.A. 2C:43-2.2).
Under Nicole’s Law12 victims of certain sexual offenses should be advised that the prosecutor
may apply for a Sexual Offense Restraining Order (SORO). The SORO may be issued as a
pretrial condition of release. The order places prohibitions on the defendant, including, but not
limited to, no contact with the victim. The victim’s location remains confidential and shall not
appear on any documents or records to which the defendant has access. (See N.J.S.A. 2C:14-12).
If the defendant is found guilty of an enumerated crime, the court may order these conditions to
remain after sentencing. (See N.J.S.A. 2C:44-8).
Victims should also be apprised of their right to apply for a Sexual Assault Survivor Protection
Act (SASPA) Order pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2C:14-13.
*Please consult the Appendix XI, Protection Orders for Sexual Assault Victims for a list of
protective orders for which the victim may apply.

12

N.J.S.A. 2C:14-12, et seq. and N.J.S.A. 2C:44-8.

-27-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Standard 11: SART TEAM TRAINING
Every county shall provide standardized SART training to all personnel assigned to respond as
members of the County SART.
Each county shall present basic, refresher, and/or advanced SART training courses, depending
on the needs of the specific county, for all individuals participating as members of the County
SART, including FNEs, CSVAs, law enforcement officers, detectives, and investigators.
The County Prosecutor’s Office shall invite members of the SART Advisory Board to participate
in the development and presentation of the Basic SART training. Curriculum for the Basic
SART training should include, at a minimum, the following components:


















Statewide SART/FNE History;
County SART History and Statistics;
Dynamics of Sexual Assault;
Effects of Trauma;
Victim-Centered and Trauma-Informed Approaches;
Cultural Awareness and Special Needs Population;
Role of the Confidential Sexual Violence Advocate (CSVA);
Role of Law Enforcement;
Role of the Forensic Nurse Examiner (FNE);
Medical Forensic Examination Process;
County SART Activation Mechanism;
County SART Policies and Procedures;
County Evidence Handling and Retention Procedures;
Overview of county protocol for the medical forensic evaluation of child victims of
sexual abuse;
Legal issues associated with prosecution;
Applicable statutes, rules, and regulations; and
Services provided by the County Victim Witness Advocates.

At the conclusion of the training course, the participants should be afforded an opportunity to
evaluate the course content and methods of presentation.
SART training updates will be presented periodically to apprise team members of changes to
SART policies and procedures.

-28-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Standard 12: COUNTY SART ADVISORY BOARDS
The 21 County SART Advisory Boards review SART activation procedures, evaluate existing
SART program policies and procedures, and provide input and recommendations on current best
practices.
THE COUNTY SART ADVISORY BOARDS
The role of the County SART Advisory Board is to inform the County Prosecutor about the
operation of the County SART program. The SART Coordinator is the liaison between the
County Prosecutor and the Advisory Board members and shall facilitate communication among
all Board members.

Meeting Schedule
The County SART Advisory Board must meet quarterly. The quarterly meetings must be
scheduled prior to the start of the calendar year; and these dates, times, and locations must be
forwarded to the Statewide SART Advisory Board in advance.

Mandatory Members
The County SART Advisory Board shall consist of the following members:
 the County Prosecutor or his/her designee;
 the County SART Coordinator;
 the County FNE Coordinator;
 a representative from the Lead County Sexual Violence Services Organization;
 a representative of the County Communications;
 a representative from each participating Examination Facility;
 a representative of the County Office of Victim Witness Advocacy;
 a representative of the County Chiefs of Police Association; and
 representatives from Law Enforcement Agencies responsible for conducting the
investigation of sexual offenses.

Invited Members
Upon invitation, the County SART advisory board may also consist of the following members:
 a representative from the Division of Criminal Justice, State Office of Victim Witness
Advocacy, which is the agency that oversees the Statewide SART/FNE program or
his/her designee;
 a representative of the Division on Women, Sexual Assault, Abuse, and Rape Care
Program (SAARC) or his/her designee;
 a representative from CP&P; and
 the Military Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC), if applicable.
-29-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

In addition to the above two lists, the County Prosecutor may invite a representative from other
county or state agencies, institutions or groups, including, but not limited to, NJCASA, local
colleges and universities, and local child advocacy organizations to participate in the County
SART Advisory Board meetings.

Duties
To maintain proper oversight of the SART and ensure its proper functioning, the following
duties shall be carried out by the County SART Advisory Board:
 Discuss any trending policy issues concerning the provision of services to victims of
sexual violence;
 Address complaints about the SART and/or violations of these Standards, fiscal and
programmatic grant rules, or regulations, directives, guidelines, or State policy
concerning the provision of services to victims of sexual violence made by the SART, as
reported by victims or outside stakeholders, or identified by the County SART Advisory
Board;
 Address any reported or identified complaints, issues, or unusual occurrences
concerning the SART program or a SART member pursuant to the complaint procedures
contained in Standard 14;
o If the offending member is the SART Coordinator, an appropriate member of the
County SART Advisory Board shall report the incident to the assistant
prosecutor or detective supervising the County SART program. If the matter
cannot be handled at the county level, then it shall be referred to the Statewide
SART Advisory Board.
 Forward complaints and/or violations of program rules and requirements to the
Statewide SART Advisory Board State, if warranted; and
 Coordinate and conduct standardized SART training for all SART members and
personnel assigned to respond during a SART activation.

-30-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Standard 13: STATEWIDE SART ADVISORY BOARD
The Statewide SART Advisory Board shall monitor the operation of the 21 County SART
programs, review the effectiveness of the services provided by the State to victims of sexual
assault and make recommendations to the Attorney General for any needed changes in the
standards, regulations, or State policy concerning the provision of victim services.
The Statewide SART Advisory Board
In 2001, a permanent Attorney General SART/FNE Coordinating Council (now called the
“Statewide SART Advisory Board”) was established pursuant to N.J.S.A. 52:4B-55. The mission
of the Statewide SART Advisory Board (“the Board”) is to review the effectiveness of the
services provided by the State and the 21 County SART programs to victims of sexual assault.
Based on the findings these reviews yield, the Board is to make recommendations to the
Attorney General for any needed changes or updates in the standards, regulations, or State
policy concerning the provision of victim services.

Meeting Schedule
The Statewide SART Advisory Board shall meet, as a minimum, quarterly at the Division of
Criminal Justice in Trenton, New Jersey, but may meet at other times, as needed, if an emergent
matter presents itself.

Mandatory Members
Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 52:4B-55, the Statewide SART Advisory Board is comprised of the
following members or their designees:
 the Attorney General;
 the Director of the Division on Women;
 the Chief of the State Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy;
 the Executive Director of the New Jersey Coalition Against Sexual Assault;
 the Executive Director of the New Jersey Board of Nursing;
 a representative from the New Jersey County Prosecutors Association; and
 a representative from the SART/FNE Program Coordinators.

Invited Members
In addition to the statutorily required members, the Division of Criminal Justice may consult
the following organizations as subject matter experts to the Statewide SART Advisory Board:
 the New Jersey Administrative Office of the Courts (AOC);
 the New Jersey Victim Witness-Coordinators Association;
 the New Jersey State Police Office of Forensic Sciences;
 the New Jersey State Police Victim Services Unit;

-31-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT






the New Jersey State Association of Chiefs of Police;
New Jersey University and College Police Departments;
New Jersey SART/Forensic Nurse Coordinator Programs; and
Sexual Violence Services Organizations.

The above list of invited members is not finite, and is subject to change, pursuant to the needs of
the Council and the State, to ensure full representation from every field that is integral to the
issue of sexual assault.

Duties
To maintain proper oversight of the 21 County SARTs and ensure victims receive care consistent
with these Standards, the following duties shall be carried out by the Statewide SART Advisory
Board:










assist the Attorney General in overseeing the Statewide SART Program;
monitor the 21 County SART Advisory Boards to ensure they are meeting quarterly;
discuss any trending issues, complaints, and/or violations of these Standards, as
reported by County SART Advisory Boards, victims, outside stakeholders, or the
Statewide SART Advisory Board in the following areas:
o laws and proposed legislation
o regulations
o directives
o guidelines
o fiscal and programmatic program grant rules
o state policy concerning the provision of services to victims of sexual violence
for matters brought to the attention of the Statewide SART Advisory Board, or identified
by the Statewide Board itself, the level of necessary corrective action will be determined
by the Board based upon the seriousness of the infraction;
discuss existing and proposed legislation, regulations, and/or policy that may affect or
impact the SART program;
discuss new research and/or emerging trends from the field that may inform new best
practices for the SART program; and
discuss potential new initiatives, grant opportunities, or programs that may assist the
SART program.

-32-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Standard 14: SART COMPLAINT PROCEDURES
The following procedures shall be implemented to address any complaints, issues, or unusual
occurrences concerning a County SART. These procedures are designed to ensure best practices
are followed by both the Team and the individual members.
Complaint Procedures














Complaints, issues, or unusual occurrences regarding an activation, response,
examination, interview, or SART Member shall be reported to the County SART
Coordinator as soon as possible after the incident. It is recommended that the County
SART Coordinator be advised within three business days of the event.
Victims who would like to address complaints, issues, or unusual occurrences regarding
their SART activation, response, examination, or interview shall call the Statewide SART
Advisory Board phone number.
The County SART Coordinator shall document and report all complaints, issues, or
unusual occurrences, as well as the prescribed resolution, to the assistant prosecutor or
detective supervising the County SART program.
The County SART Coordinator shall report complaints, issues, or unusual occurrences,
and the resolution, to the County SART Advisory Board for its information and/or
assistance in preventing similar events.
Complaints, issues, or unusual occurrences pertaining to the SART Coordinator’s
actions shall be reported directly to the assistant prosecutor or detective supervising the
County SART program, who shall document the incident, as well as the resolution.
If the complaint, issues, or unusual occurrences cannot be resolved after conferring with
the County Prosecutor’s Office, the matter shall be referred to the Statewide SART
Advisory Board, who will determine the resolution.
At the Statewide SART Advisory Board meetings, all feedback pertaining to the 21
County SART programs will be reviewed.

-33-

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

APPENDICES

A- 1

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

I.

RELEVANT AGENCIES

BUREAU OF GUARDIANSHIP SERVICES (BGS), DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES
o

Responsible for processing and tracking guardianship actions for people served by the
Division of Developmental Disabilities (DDD) who have been evaluated according to state
law and determined to require a guardian. BGS is only able to serve individuals who have
been determined by DDD, through its application process, to be eligible for its services.

COUNTY ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES
o

Serves vulnerable adults in the community and investigates instances of abuse and neglect.

CHILD PROTECTION AND PERMANENCY (CP&P), DEPARTMENT OF CHILDREN AND
FAMILIES (formerly the Division of Youth and Family Services, DYFS)
o

New Jersey’s child protection and child welfare agency within the Department of Children
and Families. Its mission is to ensure the safety, permanency, and well-being of children
and to support families. CP&P is responsible for investigating allegations of child abuse
and neglect and, if necessary, arranging for the child’s protection and the family’s treatment.
The Child Abuse Hotline (State Central Registry) receives all reports of child abuse and
neglect 24-hours a day, seven-days a week. Reports requiring a field response are
forwarded to the CP&P Local Office who investigates.

FORENSIC NURSE EXAMINERS COORDINATORS ASSOCIATION
o

The mission of the Forensic Nurse Coordinators Association is to encourage advanced
knowledge, inspire strong leadership, and deliver the highest standard of evidence based
healthcare across the lifespan. The Association discusses statewide forensic nursing issues
relevant to the scope of practice, as well as offers support and education to FNEs.

DIVISION OF DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (DDD), DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN
SERVICES
o

Provides a variety of services to individuals with developmental disabilities (onset before
age 21), operates state-run developmental centers, and provides funding for communitybased group homes throughout the state. This agency investigates instances of abuse and
neglect in state-run, state-funded, or state-licensed facilities.
A developmental disability is a condition that is attributable to a mental or physical
impairment, or combination of the two. It manifests before age 22, is likely to continue
indefinitely, and results in substantial functional limitations in three or more of the

A- 2

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

following areas of major life activities: self-care; receptive and expressive language;
learning, mobility; self-direction; and capacity for independent living. Developmental
disabilities, include, but are not limited to: autism spectrum disorder; hearing loss; vision
loss; muscular dystrophy; cerebral palsy; spina bifida; fragile X syndrome; Tourette’s
syndrome; and fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.

DIVISION OF DISABILITY SERVICES (DDS), DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES
o

Serves as a single point of entry for people with disabilities who need information and/or
services within the human services system. DDS works to streamline access to services and
information that promote and enhance independent living for individuals with all
disabilities by facilitating coordination and cooperation among local, county, and state
government agencies.
With 43 employees, DDS administers programs that allow people with different types of
disabilities to live more independently in the community, and in many cases, avoid the need
to move into an institution. These programs include home and community-based service
programs, as well as other resource programs.

DIVISION ON WOMEN (DOW), DEPARTMENT OF CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
o

Established as a pioneering state agency for women’s advocacy throughout the state.
DOW’s mission is to create, promote and expand the rights and opportunities for all women
in the State of New Jersey.

o

DOW supports the development, coordination, and evaluation of programs and services for
women and other constituents. DOW fosters programs and services that empower the
women of New Jersey.

NEW JERSEY COALITION AGAINST SEXUAL ASSAULT (NJCASA)
o

The statewide advocacy and capacity building organization that represents the 21-county
sexual violence services programs. NJCASA’s mission is to promote compassionate and just
treatment of survivors and their loved ones, train allied professionals, foster collaborative
relationships amongst community systems, and work toward the elimination of sexual
violence against all people.

OFFICE OF THE OMBUDSMAN FOR THE INSTITUTIONALIZED ELDERLY
o

Investigates allegations of abuse and neglect of people, age 60 and older, living in nursing
homes and other long-term healthcare facilities.

A- 3

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

OFFICE OF THE PUBLIC GUARDIAN (OPG) FOR ELDERLY ADULTS, DIVISION OF AGING
o

Acts as surrogate decision maker for residents sixty years of age and over who have been
deemed incapacitated by the Superior Court of New Jersey. OPG does not petition to
become guardian, but rather accepts judicial appointments on a discretionary basis.

A- 4

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

II.

SEXUAL OFFENSES

*Although the following statutes are provided for convenience, please consult the authority
directly to ensure accuracy, as statutes are always subject to change.

N.J.S.A. 2C:14-1(c). Definitions
ACTOR
A person accused of an offense proscribed under this act.

VICTIM
A person alleging to have been subjected to offenses proscribed by this act.

SEXUAL PENETRATION
Vaginal intercourse, cunnilingus, fellatio or anal intercourse between persons or insertion of the
hand, finger or object into the anus or vagina either by the actor or upon the actor’s instruction.
The depth of insertion shall not be relevant as to the question of commission of the crime.

SEXUAL CONTACT
An intentional touching by the victim or actor, either directly or through clothing, of the
victim’s or actor’s intimate parts for the purpose of degrading or humiliating the victim or
sexually arousing or sexually gratifying the actor. Sexual contact of the actor with himself must
be in view of the victim whom the actor knows to be present.

INTIMATE PARTS
Means the following body parts: sexual organs, genital area, anal area, inner thigh, groin,
buttock, or breast of a person.

SEVERE PERSONAL INJURY
Means severe bodily injury, disfigurement, disease, incapacitating mental anguish, or chronic
pain.

PHYSICALLY HELPLESS
That condition in which a person is unconscious or is physically unable to flee or is physically
unable to communicate unwillingness to act.

A- 5

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

MENTALLY INCAPACITATED
That condition in which a person is rendered temporarily incapable of understanding or
controlling his conduct due to the influence of a narcotic, anesthetic, intoxicant, or other
substance administered to that person without his prior knowledge or consent, or due to any
other act committed upon that person which rendered that person incapable of appraising or
controlling his conduct.

COERCION
Those acts which are defined as criminal coercion in N.J.S.A. 2C:13-5(1), (2), (3), (4), (6) and (7).

N.J.S.A. 2C:14-2. Sexual assault
AGGRAVATED SEXUAL ASSAULT
a. An actor is guilty of aggravated sexual assault if he commits an act of sexual penetration
with another person under any one of the following circumstances:
(1) The victim is less than 13 years old;
(2) The victim is at least 13, but less than 16 years old; and
(a) The actor is related to the victim by blood or affinity to the third degree,
or
(b) The actor has supervisory or disciplinary power over the victim by
virtue of the actor’s legal, professional, or occupational status, or
(c) The actor is a resource family parent, a guardian, or stands in loco
parentis within the household;
(3) The act is committed during the commission, or attempted commission, whether
alone or with one or more other persons, of robbery, kidnapping, homicide,
aggravated assault on another, burglary, arson, or criminal escape;
(4) The actor is armed with a weapon or any object fashioned in such a manner as to
lead the victim to reasonably believe it to be a weapon and threatens by word or
gesture to use the weapon or object;
(5) The actor is aided or abetted by one or more other persons and the actor uses
physical force or coercion;
(6) The actor uses physical force or coercion and severe personal injury is sustained
by the victim;
(7) The victim is one whom the actor knew or should have known was physically
helpless or incapacitated, intellectually or mentally incapacitated, or had a
mental disease or defect which rendered the victim temporarily or permanently
incapable of understanding the nature of his conduct, including, but not limited
to, being incapable of providing consent.
Aggravated Sexual Assault is a crime of the first degree.

A- 6

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

SEXUAL ASSAULT
b. An actor is guilty of sexual assault if he commits an act of sexual contact with a victim
who is less than 13 years old and the actor is at least four years older than the victim.
c. An actor is guilty of sexual assault if he commits an act of sexual penetration with
another person under any one of the following circumstances:
(1) The actor uses physical force or coercion, but the victim does not sustain severe
personal injury;
(2) The victim is on probation or parole, or is detained in a hospital, prison, or other
institution and the actor has supervisory or disciplinary power over the victim
by virtue of the actor’s legal, professional, or occupational status;
(3) The victim is at least 16, but less than 18 years old, and:
(a) The actor is related to the victim by blood or affinity to the third degree;
or
(b) The actor has supervisory or disciplinary power of any nature or in any
capacity over the victim; or
(c) The actor is a resource family parent, a guardian, or stands in loco
parentis within the household;
(4) The victim is at least 13, but less than 16 years old, and the actor is at least four
years older than the victim.
Sexual assault is a crime of the second degree.

N.J.S.A. 2C:14-2.1. Right of victim to consult with prosecuting authority
Whenever there is a prosecution for a violation of N.J.S.A. 2C:14-2, the victim of the sexual
assault shall be provided an opportunity to consult with the prosecuting authority prior to the
conclusion of any plea negotiations.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to alter or limit the authority or discretion of the
prosecutor to enter into any plea agreement which the prosecutor deems appropriate.

N.J.S.A. 2C:14-3. Criminal sexual contact
AGGRAVATED SEXUAL CONTACT
a. An actor is guilty of Aggravated Criminal Sexual Contact if he commits an act of sexual
contact with the victim under any of the circumstances set forth in 2C:14-2a. (2) through
(7).
Aggravated Criminal Sexual Contact is a crime of the third degree. See:
(2) The victim is at least 13, but less than 16 years old; and

A- 7

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

(a) The actor is related to the victim by blood or affinity to the third degree,
or
(b) The actor has supervisory or disciplinary power over the victim by
virtue of the actor’s legal, professional, or occupational status, or
(c) The actor is a resource family parent, a guardian, or stands in loco
parentis within the household;
(3) The act is committed during the commission, or attempted commission, whether
alone or with one or more other persons, of robbery, kidnapping, homicide,
aggravated assault on another, burglary, arson, or criminal escape;
(4) The actor is armed with a weapon or any object fashioned in such a manner as to
lead the victim to reasonably believe it to be a weapon and threatens by word or
gesture to use the weapon or object;
(5) The actor is aided or abetted by one or more other persons and the actor uses
physical force or coercion;
(6) The actor uses physical force or coercion and severe personal injury is sustained
by the victim;
(7) The victim is one whom the actor knew or should have known was physically
helpless or incapacitated, intellectually or mentally incapacitated, or had a
mental disease or defect which rendered the victim temporarily or permanently
incapable of understanding the nature of his conduct, including, but not limited
to, being incapable of providing consent.

SEXUAL CONTACT
b. An actor is guilty of criminal sexual contact if he commits an act of sexual contact with
the victim under any of the circumstances set forth in section 2C:14-2c.(1) through (4).
Criminal sexual contact is a crime of the fourth degree. See:
(1) The actor uses physical force or coercion, but the victim does not sustain severe
personal injury;
(2) The victim is on probation or parole, or is detained in a hospital, prison, or other
institution and the actor has supervisory or disciplinary power over the victim
by virtue of the actor’s legal, professional, or occupational status;
(3) The victim is at least 16, but less than 18 years old, and:
(a) The actor is related to the victim by blood or affinity to the third degree;
or
(b) The actor has supervisory or disciplinary power of any nature or in any
capacity over the victim; or
(c) The actor is a resource family parent, a guardian, or stands in loco
parentis within the household;
(4) The victim is at least 13, but less than 16 years old, and the actor is at least four
years older than the victim.

A- 8

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

N.J.S.A. 2C:14-4. Lewdness
a. A person commits a disorderly persons offense if he does any flagrantly lewd and
offensive act which he knows or reasonably expects is likely to be observed by other
nonconsenting persons who would be affronted or alarmed.
b. A person commits a crime of the fourth degree if:
(1) He exposes his intimate parts for the purpose of arousing or gratifying the sexual
desire of the actor or of any other person under circumstances where the actor
knows or reasonably expects he is likely to be observed by a child who is less
than 13 years of age where the actor is at least four years older than the child.
(2) He exposes his intimate parts for the purpose of arousing or gratifying the sexual
desire of the actor or of any other person under circumstances where the actor
knows or reasonably expects he is likely to be observed by a person who because
of mental disease or defect is unable to understand the sexual nature of the
actor’s conduct.
c. As used in this section: “lewd acts” shall include the exposing of the genitals for the
purpose of arousing or gratifying the sexual desire of the actor or of any other person.

A- 9

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

III.

SEXUAL ASSAULT VICTIM’S RIGHT TO A CONFIDENTIAL
SEXUAL VIOLENCE ADVOCATE 13

N.J.S.A. 52:4B-22. Information booklets, pamphlets
a. Every state, county, and municipal police department and hospital or other place of
emergency medical care shall have available and shall post in a public place information
booklets, pamphlets or other pertinent written information, to be supplied by the
Victims of Crime Compensation Agency (*now the Victims of Crime Compensation
Office “VCCO”), relating to the availability of crime victims’ compensation including all
necessary application blanks required to be filed with the agency.
b. Included in the information supplied by the [VCCO] shall be information for victims of
sexual offenses. This information shall contain the location of rape crisis centers in all
geographical areas throughout the State and shall instruct victims of sexual offenses that
if a rape crisis center is not available in a victim’s immediate geographical area, the
victim may contact the appropriate county victim-witness coordinator appointed by the
Chief of the Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy established pursuant to P.L.1985, c.404
(C.52:4B-39 et seq.). The information shall also provide that victims will not be charged
any fee for services that are directly associated with a forensic sexual assault
examination, including routine medical screening, medications for prophylaxis of
sexually transmitted infections, pregnancy tests, emergency contraception, supplies,
equipment and use of space.
Unless the victim requires immediate medical attention, this information shall be
personally conveyed to the victim of a sexual offense by a representative of the hospital
or place of emergency care before a medical examination of the victim is conducted, or
by a representative of the police department before the victim’s statement is taken, to
afford the victim the opportunity to arrange to have assistance from the rape crisis
center or county victim-witness coordinator during these procedures. Hospitals shall be
held harmless from suits emanating from a hospital’s carrying out the obligation to
convey information to victims of sexual offenses.
“Rape crisis center “14 means an office, institution or center offering assistance to victims
of sexual offenses through crisis intervention, medical and legal information and followup counseling.
c. Every police department shall, upon the filing of a report of a violent crime, make
available to any victim information concerning crime victims’ compensation.

13
14

Formerly called Rape Care Advocate.
Now referred to as Sexual Violence Services Program.

A- 10

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

IV.

VICTIM-COUNSELOR PRIVILEGE FOR CONFIDENTIAL
SEXUAL VIOLENCE ADVOCATES

N.J.S.A. 2A:84A-22.15. Victim counselor confidentiality privilege
Subject to Rule 37 of the Rules of Evidence, a victim counselor has a privilege not to be
examined as a witness in any civil or criminal proceeding with regard to any confidential
communication. The privilege shall be claimed by the counselor unless otherwise instructed by
prior written consent of the victim. When a victim is incapacitated or deceased consent to
disclosure may be given by the guardian, executor, or administrator except when the guardian,
executor, or administrator is the defendant or has a relationship with the victim such that the
guardian, executor, or administrator has an interest in the outcome of the proceeding. The
privilege may be knowingly waived by a juvenile. In any instance where the juvenile is, in the
opinion of the judge, incapable of knowing consent, the parent or guardian of the juvenile may
waive the privilege on behalf of the juvenile, provided that the parent or guardian is not the
defendant and does not have a relationship with the defendant such that he has an interest in
the outcome of the proceeding. A victim counselor or a victim cannot be compelled to provide
testimony in any civil or criminal proceeding that would identify the name, address, location, or
telephone number of a domestic violence shelter or any other facility that provided temporary
emergency shelter to the victim of the offense or transaction that is the subject of the proceeding
unless the facility is a party to the proceeding.

A- 11

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

V.

SEXUAL ASSAULT OF MILITARY PERSONNEL

BACKGROUND
The Department of Defense (DoD) Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program
helps prevent sexual assault involving service members through training and education
programs; provides treatment and support to victims of sexual assault; and promotes military
system accountability when sexual assaults are investigated.
Victims of sexual assault who are military personnel should be advised to contact a military
Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC) as soon as possible (see below). Military victims
of sexual assault have options for reporting or not reporting a sexual assault. Specific policies
are generated by the DoD.15 Victims must adhere to these policies to ensure their rights are
maintained. Until victims are certain they want to make an official report, victims should be
advised to limit discussion of the assault to medical, clergy, or victim assistance personnel only.
Discussion of an assault with peers, law enforcement, or anyone in the chain-of-command will
result in a mandatory report.

RESTRICTED REPORTING
Eligible victims (military personnel of the Armed Forces and their adult dependents) may
report a sexual assault to the SARC, a SAPR Victim Advocate, or healthcare provider/personnel
without triggering the official investigative process or notification to command.
Victims choosing this option may receive victim services, including those listed below, without
notifying command or law enforcement.




Healthcare (medical and mental care and treatment)
Advocacy services (from a SARC or SAPR VA)
Legal advice (from a Special Victim’s Counsel)

UNRESTRICTED REPORTING
For victims who want an official investigation and command notification, in addition to
healthcare, victim advocacy, and legal services, they should use the current reporting channels:
 Law Enforcement/Military Investigative Organization (MCIO) (will initiate an
investigation and start a “report of investigation”)
 Commander (who will then immediately contact the MCIO to start a “report of
investigation”)

DoD Directives 6495.01 and 1030.01, Directive Type Memorandum 14-007, and DoD Instructions
6495.02 and 1030.2.
15

A- 12

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT





SARC (who will fill out a report with the “DD Form 2910” where the victim elects a
reporting option)
SAPR VA (who will fill out a report with the “DD Form 2910”)
Healthcare personnel (who will then immediately contact the SARC to fill out the “DD
Form 2910”)

Once reported, the SARC will immediately assign the victim a SAPR VA and inform them of
their right to speak with a Special Victims’ Counsel. At the victim’s discretion, they may then
seek a medical forensic exam and SAFE Kit.
Additionally, unrestricted reporting victims are entitled to:
 military protection orders;
 request transfer from their unit;
 legal advice; and
 a law enforcement investigation into the incident.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
All victims, regardless of which reporting option they choose to exercise, are entitled to:
 Advocacy via the SARC and SAPR VAs
 Medical care, treatment, and forensic medical exams/SAFE Kits
 Mental health counseling
 Spiritual care via chaplains
 Legal advice via a Special Victims’ Counsel
The DoD SafeHelpline is a 24/7 crisis support service for adult service members of the DoD
community affected by sexual assault. The Safe Helpline provides live, one-on-one expert
advice and information. SafeHelpline staff can also transfer callers to the installation or base
SARC, on-call SAPR VAs, civilian sexual violence services organizations, or the Suicide
Prevention Lifeline. Victims can access the SafeHelpline the following three ways:
 Online: Log on to www.safehelpline.org to receive live, one-on-one confidential help
with a trained professional through a secure instant-messaging format;
 Telephone: Call 1-877-995-5247 to speak with Safe Helpline staff for personalized advice
and support; and
 Text: Text your location to 55-247 (inside the U.S.) or 202-470-5546 (outside of the U.S.)
to receive automated contact information for the SARC at their installation or base.
Victims may also speak to a chaplain. While a report to a chaplain is not a restricted report under
the policy, it is a privileged communication protected under the Military Rules of Evidence.16
For further information, consult the DOD’s Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office.

16

Military Rule of Evidence 503 (MRE 503).

A- 13

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

VI.

MINOR SEXUAL ASSAULT VICTIMS’ RIGHT TO CONSENT TO
MEDICAL CARE AND SEXUAL ASSAULT MEDICAL FORENSIC
EXAMINATIONS

N.J.S.A. 9:17A-4. Consent by minor to treatment
a.
(1) The consent to the provision of medical or surgical care or services or a forensic
sexual assault examination by a hospital or public clinic, or consent to the
performance of medical or surgical care or services or a forensic sexual assault
examination by a health care professional, when executed by a minor who is or
believes that he or she may have a sexually transmitted infection, or who is at
least 13 years of age and is or believes that he or she may be infected with the
human immunodeficiency virus or have acquired immune deficiency syndrome,
or by a minor who, in the judgment of the treating health care professional,
appears to have been sexually assaulted, shall be valid and binding as if the
minor had achieved the age of majority. Any such consent shall not be subject to
later disaffirmance by reason of minority. In the case of a minor who appears to
have been sexually assaulted, the minor’s parents or guardian shall be notified
immediately, unless the treating healthcare professional believes that it is in the
best interests of the patient not to do so. Inability of the treating health care
professional, hospital, or clinic to locate or notify the parents or guardian shall
not preclude the provision of any emergency or medical or surgical care to the
minor or the performance of a forensic sexual assault examination on the minor.
(2) As used in this subsection, “healthcare professional” means a physician,
physician assistant, nurse, or other health care professional whose professional
practice is regulated pursuant to Title 45 of the Revised Statutes.
b. When a minor believes that he or she is adversely affected by a substance use disorder
involving drugs or is a person with a substance use disorder involving drugs as defined
in section 2 of P.L.1970, c.226 (C.24:21-2) or is adversely affected by an alcohol use
disorder or is a person with an alcohol use disorder as defined in section 2 of P.L.1975,
c.305 (C.26:2B-8), the minor’s consent to treatment under the supervision of a physician
licensed to practice medicine, or an individual licensed or certified to provide treatment
for an alcohol use disorder, or in a facility licensed by the State to provide for the
treatment of an alcohol use disorder, shall be valid and binding as if the minor had
achieved the age of majority. Any such consent shall not be subject to later disaffirmance
by reason of minority. Treatment for an alcohol use disorder or a substance use disorder
involving drugs that is consented to by a minor shall be considered confidential
information between the physician, the treatment provider, or the treatment facility, as
appropriate, and the patient, and neither the minor nor the minor’s physician, treatment
provider, or treatment facility, as appropriate, shall be required to report such treatment
when it is the result of voluntary consent, except as may otherwise be required by law.
A- 14

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

When a minor who is 16 years of age or older believes that he or she is in need of
behavioral health care services for the treatment of mental illness or emotional disorders,
the minor’s consent to temporary outpatient treatment, excluding the use or
administration of medication, under the supervision of a physician licensed to practice
medicine, an advanced practice nurse, or an individual licensed to provide professional
counseling under Title 45 of the Revised Statutes, including, but not limited to, a
psychiatrist, licensed practicing psychologist, certified social worker, licensed clinical
social worker, licensed social worker, licensed marriage and family therapist, certified
psychoanalyst, or licensed psychologist, or in an outpatient health care facility licensed
pursuant to P.L.1971, c.136 (C.26:2H-1 et seq.), shall be valid and binding as if the minor
had achieved the age of majority. Any such consent shall not be subject to later
disaffirmance by reason of minority. Treatment for behavioral health care services for
mental illness or emotional disorders that is consented to by a minor shall be considered
confidential information between the physician, the individual licensed to provide
professional counseling, the advanced practice nurse, or the health care facility, as
appropriate, and the patient, and neither the minor nor the minor’s physician,
professional counselor, nurse, or outpatient health care facility, as appropriate, shall be
required to report such treatment when it is the result of voluntary consent.
The consent of no other person or persons, including but not limited to, a spouse, parent,
custodian, or guardian, shall be necessary in order to authorize a minor to receive such
hospital services, facility, or clinical care or services, medical or surgical care or services,
or counseling services from a physician licensed to practice medicine, an individual
licensed or certified to provide treatment for an alcohol use disorder, an advanced
practice nurse, or an individual licensed to provide professional counseling under Title
45 of the Revised Statutes, as appropriate, except that behavioral health care services for
the treatment of mental illness or emotional disorders shall be limited to temporary
outpatient services only.

A- 15

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

VII. MANDATORY CHILD ABUSE REPORTING
N.J.S.A. 9:6-8.10. Reports of abuse
Any person having reasonable cause to believe that a child has been subjected to child abuse or
acts of child abuse shall report the same immediately to the Division of Child Protection and
Permanency by telephone or otherwise. Such reports, where possible, shall contain the names
and addresses of the child and his parent, guardian, or other person having custody and control
of the child and, if known, the child’s age, the nature and possible extent of the child’s injuries,
abuse or maltreatment, including any evidence of previous injuries, abuse or maltreatment, and
any other information that the person believes may be helpful with respect to the child abuse
and the identity of the perpetrator.

A- 16

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

VIII. STANDARDS FOR SERVICES TO CRIME VICTIMS
NJ Const., art. I, para. 2: New Jersey Constitutional Amendment for Victims Rights
A victim of a crime shall be treated with fairness, compassion and respect by the criminal justice
system. A victim of a crime shall not be denied the right to be present at public judicial
proceedings except when, prior to completing testimony as a witness, the victim is properly
sequestered in accordance with law or the Rules Governing the Courts of the State of New
Jersey. A victim of a crime shall be entitled to those rights and remedies as may be provided by
the Legislature.

N.J.S.A. 52:4B-36. Findings, declarations relative to rights of crime victims, witnesses
The legislature finds and declares that crime victims and witnesses are entitled to the following
rights:
a. To be treated with dignity and compassion by the criminal justice system;
b. To be informed about the criminal justice process;
c. To be free from intimidation, harassment or abuse by any person including the
defendant or any other person acting in support of or on behalf of the defendant, due to
the involvement of the victim or witness in the criminal justice process;
d. To have inconveniences associated with participation in the criminal justice process
minimized to the fullest extent possible;
e. To make at least one telephone call provided the call is reasonable in both length and
location called;
f. To medical assistance reasonably related to the incident in accordance with the
provisions of the “Criminal Injuries Compensation Act of 1971,” P.L. 1971, c. 317
(N.J.S.A. 52:4B-1 et seq.);
g. To be notified in a timely manner, if practicable, if presence in court is not needed or if
any scheduled court proceeding has been adjourned or cancelled;
h. To be informed about available remedies, financial assistance and social services;
i. To be compensated for loss sustained by the victim whenever possible;
j. To be provided a secure, but not necessarily separate, waiting area during court
proceedings;
k. To be advised of case progress and final disposition and to confer with the prosecutor’s
representative so that the victim may be kept adequately informed;
l. To the prompt return of property when no longer needed as evidence;
m. To submit a written statement, within a reasonable amount of time, about the impact of
the crime to a representative of the prosecuting agency which shall be considered prior
to the prosecutor’s final decision concerning whether formal criminal charges will be
filed, whether the prosecutor will consent to a request by the defendant to enter into a
pre-trial program, and whether the prosecutor will make or agree to a negotiated plea;

A- 17

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

n. To make, prior to sentencing, an in-person statement directly to the sentencing court
concerning the impact of the crime. This statement is to be made in addition to the
statement permitted for inclusion in the presentence report by N.J.S.A. 2C:44-6;
o. To have the opportunity to consult with the prosecuting authority prior to the
conclusion of any plea negotiations, and to have the prosecutor advise the court of the
consultation and the victim’s position regarding the plea agreement, provided however
that nothing herein shall be construed to alter or limit the authority or discretion of the
prosecutor to enter into any plea agreement which the prosecutor deems appropriate;
p. To be present at any judicial proceeding involving a crime or any juvenile proceeding
involving a criminal offense, except as otherwise provided by Article I, paragraph 22 of
the New Jersey Constitution;
q. To be notified of any release or escape of the defendant; and
r. To appear in any court before which a proceeding implicating the rights of the victim is
being held, with standing to file a motion or present argument on a motion filed to
enforce any right conferred herein or by Article I, paragraph 22 of the New Jersey
Constitution, and to receive an adjudicative decision by the court on any such motion.

N.J.S.A. 52:4B-44. Standards for law enforcement agencies to ensure rights of crime
victims
a. The Attorney General shall, through the Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy in the
Division of Criminal Justice in the Department of Law and Public Safety and in
consultation with the county prosecutors, promulgate standards for law enforcement
agencies to ensure that the rights of crime victims are enforced.
b. The standards shall require that the Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy in the Division
of Criminal Justice and each county prosecutor’s office provide the following services
upon request for victims and witnesses involved in the prosecution of a case:
(1) Orientation information about the criminal justice system and the victim’s and
witness’s role in the criminal justice process;
(2) Notification of any change in the case status and of final disposition;
(3) Information on crime prevention and on available responses to witness
intimidation;
(4) Information about available services to meet needs resulting from the crime and
referrals to service agencies, where appropriate;
(5) Advance notice of the date, time and place of the defendant’s initial appearance
before a judicial officer, submission to the court of any plea agreement, the trial
and sentencing;
(6) Advance notice of when presence in court is not needed;
(7) Advice about available compensation, restitution and other forms of recovery
and assistance in applying for government compensation;

A- 18

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

(8) A waiting or reception area separate from the defendant for use during court
proceedings;
(9) An escort or accompaniment for intimidated victims or witnesses during court
appearances;
(10) Information about directions, parking, courthouse and courtroom locations,
transportation services and witness fees, in advance of court appearances;
(11) Assistance for victims and witnesses in meeting special needs when required to
make court appearances, such as transportation and child care arrangements;
(12) Assistance in making travel and lodging arrangements for out-of-State witnesses;
(13) Notification to employers of victims and witnesses, if cooperation in the
investigation or prosecution causes absence from work;
(14) Notification of the case disposition, including the trial and sentencing;
(15) Assistance to victims in submitting a written statement to a representative of the
county prosecutor’s office about the impact of the crime prior to the prosecutor’s
final decision concerning whether formal charges will be filed;
(16) Advice to victims about their right to make a statement about the impact of the
crime for inclusion in the presentence report or at time of parole consideration, if
applicable;
(17) Notification to victims of the right to make an in-person statement, prior to
sentencing, directly to the sentencing court concerning the impact of the crime;
(18) Expediting the return of property when no longer needed as evidence;
(19) Advise and counsel, or refer for advice or counseling, victims of sexual assault,
or other criminal acts involving a risk of transmission of disease, concerning
available medical testing and assist such victims, or refer such victims for
assistance, in obtaining appropriate testing, counseling and medical care and in
making application to the Victims of Crime Compensation Board for
compensation for the costs of such testing, counseling and care;
(20) Assistance to victims in submitting a written impact statement to a representative
of the county prosecutor’s office concerning the impact of the crime which shall
be considered prior to the prosecutor’s accepting a negotiated plea agreement
containing recommendations as to sentence and assistance to victims in securing
an explanation of the terms of any such agreement and the reasons for the
agreement;
(21) Notification to the victim of the defendant’s release from custody which shall
include:
(a) notice of the defendant’s escape from custody and return to custody
following escape;
(b) notice of any other release from custody, including placement in an
Intensive Supervision Program or other alternative disposition, and any
associated conditions of release;
(c) notice of the filing by an inmate of an application for commutation of
sentence pursuant to N.J.S. 2A:167-4 and its disposition;

A- 19

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

(d) notice of parole consideration pursuant to provisions of P.L. 1979, c. 441
(C. 30:4-123.45 et seq.); and
(e) notice of the pending release of an inmate due to expiration of sentence;
and
(22) Interpreting services for victims and witnesses when necessary to assist a victim
or witness who is hearing impaired or developmentally disabled as defined in
section 3 of P.L. 1977, c. 82 (C. 30:6D-3) to understand questions and frame
answers.
SEROLOGICAL TESTING:
c. In a case involving a victim of aggravated sexual assault or sexual assault as defined in
subsection a. or c. of N.J.S. 2C:14-2, the Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy or the county
prosecutor’s office involved in the case shall:
(1) Notify the victim of the victim’s right to obtain an approved serological test for
acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) or infection with the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or any other related virus identified as a probable
causative agent of AIDS, and assist the victim, or refer the victim for assistance,
in obtaining a test and appropriate counseling and medical care;
(2) Notify the victim of the victim’s right to obtain a court order pursuant to
subsection a. of section 4 of P.L. 1993, c. 364 (C. 2C:43-2.2) requiring the offender
to submit to an approved serological test for acquired immune deficiency
syndrome (AIDS) or infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or
any other related virus identified as a probable causative agent of AIDS in the
event that the offender is indicted, formally charged, convicted or adjudicated
delinquent;
(3) Communicate the request of a victim who agrees to seek an order pursuant to
subsection a. of section 4 of P.L. 1993, c. 364 (C. 2C:43-2.2) to the prosecutor
handling the case and notify the victim or arrange for the victim to be notified of
the test result; and;
(4) Assist the victim in applying to the Victims of Crime Compensation Board for
compensation for the costs of testing, counseling and medical care.
ENSURE PROTOCOLS
d. The Attorney General shall, through the Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy and in
consultation with the Commissioner of Health and Senior Services, the Superintendent
of State Police and representatives of providers of sexual assault services, to be
designated by the Director of the Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy, coordinate the
establishment of standard protocols for the provision of information and services to
victims of sexual assault, and shall make such protocols available to victims upon
request, except that the provision of information and services with regard to emergency

A- 20

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

contraception and sexually transmitted diseases shall be in accordance with P.L. 2005, c.
50 (C. 26:2H-12.6b et al.).
HUMAN TRAFFICKING
e. In a case involving a victim of human trafficking as defined in section 1 of P.L. 2005, c.
77 (C. 2C:13-8) the Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy or the county prosecutor’s office
involved in the case shall ensure that the victim of human trafficking obtains assistance
in receiving any available benefits or services, including assistance in receiving any
necessary certifications or endorsements needed to be recognized as having federal T
non-immigrant status for the purpose of receiving any federal benefits or services
available pursuant to the “Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2003,”
22 U.S.C. § 7101 et seq.
f.

The Attorney General shall, through the Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy and in
consultation with the Commissioner of Health and Senior Services, the Superintendent
of State Police and representatives of providers of services to victims of human
trafficking, to be designated by the Director of the Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy,
coordinate the establishment of standard protocols for the provision of information and
services to victims of human trafficking, including coordination of efforts with the
appropriate federal authorities pursuant to the “Trafficking Victims Protection
Reauthorization Act of 2003,” 22 U.S.C. § 7101 et seq. and shall make such protocols
available to victims upon request.

A- 21

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

IX.

STATEWIDE FORENSIC NURSE EXAMINER LEGISLATION

N.J.S.A. 52:4B-50. Findings, declarations relative to SANE program
The Legislature finds and declares that the Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner program, established
pursuant to P.L.1997, c. 328, has been successful in ensuring more timely and accurate collection
of forensic evidence for use in prosecuting suspected rapists and in creating a compassionate
way to treat sexual assault victims, and it is important to establish the program throughout the
State of New Jersey.

N.J.S.A. 52:4B-51. Statewide Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner program
The Attorney General shall establish a Statewide Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner program in
the Department of Law and Public Safety.
Upon implementation of the certification process for a forensic sexual assault nurse examiner
pursuant to section 5 of this act, the county prosecutor in each county shall appoint or designate
a certified forensic sexual assault nurse examiner to serve as program coordinator for the
program in the county in accordance with the provisions of this section.
a. The county prosecutor may appoint an employee of the prosecutor’s office who is a
certified forensic sexual assault nurse examiner to serve as program coordinator to
administer the program in that county.
b. In a county where the county prosecutor does not appoint an employee of his office to
serve as program coordinator, the county prosecutor shall designate a certified forensic
sexual assault nurse examiner who is an employee of a licensed healthcare facility or a
county rape care program (*now referred to as Sexual Violence Services Program) that is
designated by the Division on Women in the Department of Children and Families to
serve as the program coordinator. A person designated as a program coordinator
pursuant to this subsection shall not be deemed an employee of the county prosecutor’s
office.

N.J.S.A. 52:4B-52. Duties of program coordinator; “rape care advocate” defined
The program coordinator shall:
a. Coordinate the county Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner program in accordance with
standard protocols for the provision of information and services to victims of sexual
assault developed by the Attorney General pursuant to subsection d. of section 6 of
P.L.1985, c. 404 (C.52:4B-44);
b. Perform forensic sexual assault examinations on victims of sexual assault in accordance
with the standards developed by the Attorney General and appropriate medical and
nursing standards of care;

A- 22

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

c. Designate one or more licensed physicians or certified forensic sexual assault nurse
examiners to perform forensic sexual assault examinations on victims of sexual assault
in accordance with the standards developed by the Attorney General and appropriate
medical and nursing standards of care;
d. Develop and implement standardized guidelines for forensic sexual assault
examinations performed by designated physicians or certified forensic sexual assault
nurse examiners in the county;
e. Develop and implement a standardized education and training program to provide
instruction to members of the county Sexual Assault Response Team established
pursuant to section 6 of this act which shall include, but not be limited to, instruction in
the following areas:
(1) the importance of a coordinated, multi-disciplinary response to a report of sexual
assault;
(2) the policies and procedures which govern the responsibilities of each team
member;
(3) the psychological effects of sexual assault and rape trauma syndrome on the
victim and the victim’s family and friends;
(4) the collection, handling and documentation of forensic evidence; and
(5) confidentiality issues associated with the treatment of a victim of sexual assault
and the investigation of a report of sexual assault;
f. Establish, in cooperation with licensed healthcare facilities, private waiting rooms and
areas designated for forensic sexual assault examinations and the provision of sexual
violence services in the licensed healthcare facilities participating in the program;
g. Develop, in cooperation with licensed healthcare facilities, protocols for the storage of
forensic evidence;
h. Provide appropriate services to victims of sexual assault, including the opportunity to
tend to personal hygiene needs, obtain fresh clothing and speak with a rape care
advocate (*now referred to as a Confidential Sexual Violence Advocate or “CSVA”)prior
to and during any medical procedure or law enforcement investigation, unless the
victim requires immediate medical attention, as appropriate;
i. Collaborate with law enforcement officials and the county sexual violence services
program to ensure that the needs of victims of sexual assault are met in a compassionate
manner;
j. Participate in regular meetings of the Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner Program
Coordinating Council established pursuant to section 7 of this act;
k. Develop and implement procedures to ensure that victims of sexual assault are not
charged any fee for services that are directly associated with forensic sexual assault
examinations, including routine medical screening, medications for prophylaxis of
sexually transmitted infections, pregnancy tests, emergency contraception, supplies,
equipment and use of space.

A- 23

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

As used in this section and section 6 [C.52:4B-54] of this act, “rape care advocate” means a
victim counselor, as defined pursuant to section 3 of P.L.1987, c.169 (C.2A:84A-22.14), who
specializes in the provision of rape care services.

N.J.S.A. 52:4B-53. Certification process for forensic sexual assault nurse examiners;
qualifications
The Attorney General and the New Jersey Board of Nursing shall jointly establish a certification
process for a forensic sexual assault nurse examiner.
a. An applicant for certification as a forensic sexual assault nurse examiner shall be a
registered professional nurse licensed in the State and in good standing with the New
Jersey Board of Nursing, and shall have the following qualifications:
(1) A minimum of two years of current nursing experience as defined by regulation
of the Attorney General pursuant to section 17 of this act;
(2) Certification verifying the completion of a forensic sexual assault nurse examiner
training program that meets requirements established by the Attorney General
and the New Jersey Board of Nursing; and
(3) Demonstrates clinical competence in performing a forensic sexual assault
examination.
b. The Attorney General and the New Jersey Board of Nursing shall certify an applicant
who meets the requirements of subsection a. of this section as a certified forensic sexual
assault nurse examiner.

A- 24

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

X.

SEXUAL ASSAULT RESPONSE TEAM LEGISLATION

N.J.S.A. 52:4B-54. Sexual Assault Response Team in each county
a. The county prosecutor’s office in each county shall establish a Sexual Assault Response
Team or shall enter into a collaborative agreement with another county to share the
services of that county’s response team. The response team shall be comprised of: a
certified forensic sexual assault nurse examiner, a rape care advocate (*now referred to
as a Confidential Sexual Violence Advocate or “CSVA ) from the county program
established, or designated by the Division on Women in the Department of Children and
Families, as provided under section 3 of P.L.2001, c.81 (C.52:4B-51), and a law
enforcement official. The response team shall:
(1) respond to a report of sexual assault at the request of a victim of sexual assault
pursuant to guidelines established by the Attorney General pursuant to section
17 of this act; and
(2) provide treatment, counseling, legal and medical forensic services to a victim of
sexual assault in accordance with the standard protocols developed by the
Attorney General pursuant to subsection d. of section 6 of P.L.1985, c. 404
(C.52:4B-44).
b. Each member of the response team shall complete the standardized education and
training program developed by the program coordinator pursuant to subsection e. of
P.L.2001, c.81 (C.52:4B-52).

A- 25

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

XI.

PROTECTION ORDERS FOR SEXUAL ASSAULT VICTIMS

NICOLE’S LAW LEGISLATION
Nicole’s law allows for a Sex Offense Restraining Order (SORO) which prohibits contact with
the victim or his/her family by the defendant. This order may be entered permanently upon
conviction of a defendant.

N.J.S.A. 2C:14-14. Application for temporary protective order
a.
(1) Any person alleging to be a victim of nonconsensual sexual contact, sexual
penetration, or lewdness, or any attempt at such conduct, and who is not eligible
for a restraining order as a “victim of domestic violence” as defined by the
provisions of subsection d. of section 3 of P.L.1991, c.261 (C.2C:25-19), may,
except as provided in subsection c. of this section, file an application with the
Superior Court pursuant to the Rules of Court alleging the commission of such
conduct or attempted conduct and seeking a temporary protective order.

N.J.S.A. 2C:14-12. Conditions placed upon release of certain defendants
a. When a defendant charged with a sex offense is released from custody before trial on
bail or personal recognizance, the court authorizing the release may, as a condition of
release, issue an order prohibiting the defendant from having any contact with the
victim including, but not limited to, restraining the defendant from entering the victim’s
residence, place of employment or business or school, and from harassing or stalking the
victim or the victim’s relatives in any way.
b. The written court order releasing the defendant shall contain the court’s directives
specifically restricting the defendant’s ability to have contact with the victim or the
victim’s friends, co-workers or relatives. The clerk of the court or other person
designated by the court shall provide a copy of this order to the victim forthwith.
c. The victim’s location shall remain confidential and shall not appear on any documents
or records to which the defendant has access.

N.J.S.A. 2C: 44-8. Convicted defendants, prior restrictions continued
When a defendant is found guilty of a sex offense, the court may, at the time of sentencing and
in addition to any other disposition authorized by law, order the continuation of a prior order
or condition of bail that restricts the defendant’s contact with the victim, or enter an order
imposing such restrictions at the time of sentencing.

A- 26

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

In addition to restricting a defendant’s contact with the victim, the court may enter an order:
a. restraining the defendant from entering the residence, property, school, or place of
employment of the victim or of other family or household members of the victim and
requiring the defendant to stay away from any specified place that is named in the order
and is frequented regularly by the victim or other family or household members;
b. restraining the defendant from making contact with the plaintiff or others, including an
order forbidding the defendant from personally or through an agent initiating any
communication likely to cause annoyance or alarm including, but not limited to,
personal, written, or telephone contact with the victim or other family members, or their
employers, employees, or fellow workers, or others with whom communication would
be likely to cause annoyance or alarm to the victim;
c. prohibiting the defendant from stalking or following, or threatening to harm, to stalk or
to follow, the complainant or any other person named in the order in a manner that,
taken in the context of past actions of the defendant, would put the complainant in
reasonable fear that the defendant would cause the death or injury of the complainant or
any other person. Behavior prohibited under this act includes, but is not limited to,
behavior prohibited under the provisions of P.L.1992, c.209 (C.2C:12-10);
d. providing for any other appropriate restraints necessary to protect the victim.
(See also N.J.S.A. 2C 45-1 and 2; AOC Directive #01-10 and AOC Supplement to Directive #0110.)

A- 27

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

XII. SEXUAL ASSAULT SURVIVOR PROTECTION ACT (SASPA)
N.J.S.A. 2C:14-14. Application for temporary protective order
a.
(1) Any person alleging to be a victim of nonconsensual sexual contact, sexual
penetration, or lewdness, or any attempt at such conduct, and who is not eligible
for a restraining order as a “victim of domestic violence” as defined by the
provisions of subsection d. of section 3 of P.L.1991, c.261 (C.2C:25-19), may,
except as provided in subsection b. of this section, file an application with the
Superior Court pursuant to the Rules of Court alleging the commission of such
conduct or attempted conduct and seeking a temporary protective order.
As used in this section and in sections 3, 4, and 8 of P.L.2015, c.147 (C.2C:14-15,
C.2C:14-16, and C.2C:14-20):
“Sexual contact” means an intentional touching by the victim or actor, either
directly or through clothing, of the victim’s or actor’s intimate parts for the
purpose of degrading or humiliating the victim or sexually arousing or
sexually gratifying the actor.
“Sexual penetration” means vaginal intercourse, cunnilingus, fellatio, or anal
intercourse between persons or insertion of the hand, finger, or object into the
anus or vagina either by the actor or upon the actor’s instruction.
“Lewdness” means the exposing of the genitals for the purpose of arousing
or gratifying the sexual desire of the actor or of any other person.
“Intimate parts” means the following body parts: sexual organs, genital area,
anal area, inner thigh, groin, buttock, or breast of a person.
(2) Except as provided in subsection b. of this section, an application for relief under
P.L.2015, c.147 (C.2C:14-13 et al.) may be filed by the alleged victim’s parent or
guardian on behalf of the alleged victim in any case in which the alleged victim:
(a) is less than 18 years of age; or
(b) has a developmental disability as defined in section 3 of P.L.1977, c.200
(C.5:5-44.4) or a mental disease or defect that renders the alleged victim
temporarily or permanently incapable of understanding the nature of the
alleged victim’s conduct, including, but not limited to, being incapable of
providing consent.
b.
(1) When it is alleged that nonconsensual sexual contact, sexual penetration, or
lewdness, or any attempt at such conduct, has been committed by an
unemancipated minor, an applicant seeking a protective order shall not proceed
under the provisions of P.L.2015, c.147 (C.2C:14-13 et al.), but may seek a

A- 28

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

protective order and other relief under the New Jersey Code of Juvenile Justice,
P.L.1982, c.77 (C.2A:4A-20 et seq.) by filing a complaint pursuant to the
provisions of section 11 of P.L.1982, c.77 (C.2A:4A-30).
(2) When it is alleged that nonconsensual sexual contact, sexual penetration, or
lewdness, or any attempt at such conduct, has been committed against an
unemancipated minor by a parent, guardian, or other person having care,
custody and control of that child as defined in N.J.S.9:6-2, an applicant seeking a
protective order shall not proceed under the provisions of P.L.2015, c.147
(C.2C:14-13 et al.), but shall report the incident to the Division of Child Protection
and Permanency in the Department of Children and Families for investigation
and possible legal action by the division pursuant to R.S.9:6-1 et seq. or other
applicable law, including, when appropriate, petitioning the Superior Court
pursuant to P.L.1974, c.119 (C.9:6-8.21 et seq.) for a protective order and other
relief on behalf of the applicant and the unemancipated minor.
c.
(1) An applicant may seek a protective order pursuant to P.L.2015, c.147 (C.2C:14-13
et al.) and the court may issue such an order regardless of whether criminal
charges based on the incident were filed and regardless of the disposition of any
such charges.
(2) The filing of an application pursuant to this section shall not prevent the filing of
a criminal complaint, or the institution or maintenance of a criminal prosecution
based on the same act.
d. The court shall waive any requirement that the applicant’s or alleged victim’s place of
residence appear on the application.
e. An applicant may seek a protective order pursuant to P.L.2015, c.147 (C.2C:14-13 et al.)
in a court having jurisdiction over the place where the alleged conduct or attempted
conduct occurred, where the respondent resides, or where the alleged victim resides or
is sheltered.
f.

No fees or other costs shall be assessed against an applicant for seeking a protective
order pursuant to P.L.2015, c.147 (C.2C:14-13 et al.).

N.J.S.A. 2C:14-18. Contempt proceedings
a. A respondent’s violation of any protective order issued pursuant to P.L.2015, c.147
(C.2C:14-13 et al.) shall constitute an offense under subsection d. of N.J.S.2C:29-9 and
each order shall so state. All contempt proceedings brought pursuant to subsection d. of
N.J.S.2C:29-9 shall be subject to any rules or guidelines established by the Supreme
Court to promote the prompt disposition of criminal matters.

A- 29

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

b. Where a victim alleges that a respondent has committed contempt of a protective order
entered pursuant to the provisions of P.L.2015, c.147 (C.2C:14-13 et al.), but a law
enforcement officer has found that the facts are insufficient to establish probable cause to
arrest the respondent, the law enforcement officer shall advise the victim of the
procedure for completing and signing a criminal complaint alleging a violation of
subsection d. of N.J.S.2C:29-9 through the municipal court. Nothing in this section shall
be construed to prevent the court from granting any other emergency relief it deems
necessary.
c. If a respondent is charged with a non-indictable offense pursuant to paragraph (2) of
subsection d. of N.J.S.2C:29-9 as a result of a violation of a protective order entered
pursuant to P.L.2015, c.147 (C.2C:14-13 et al.), the contempt proceedings for the nonindictable offense shall be heard in the Superior Court.

N.J.S.A. 2C:29-9. Contempt
a. A person is guilty of a crime of the fourth degree if he purposely or knowingly disobeys
a judicial order or protective order, pursuant to section 1 of P.L.1985, c.250 (C.2C:28-5.1),
or hinders, obstructs, or impedes the effectuation of a judicial order or the exercise of
jurisdiction over any person, thing, or controversy by a court, administrative body, or
investigative entity.
b.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, a person is guilty of a
crime of the fourth degree if that person purposely or knowingly violates any
provision in an order entered under the provisions of the “Prevention of
Domestic Violence Act of 1991,” P.L.1991, c.261 (C.2C:25-17 et al.) or an order
entered under the provisions of a substantially similar statute under the laws of
another state or the United States when the conduct which constitutes the
violation could also constitute a crime or a disorderly persons offense.
Orders entered pursuant to paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (8) and (9) of subsection b. of
section 13 of P.L.1991, c.261 (C.2C:25-29) or substantially similar orders entered
under the laws of another state or the United States shall be excluded from the
provisions of this paragraph.
(2) In all other cases a person is guilty of a disorderly persons offense if that person
purposely or knowingly violates an order entered under the provisions of the
“Prevention of Domestic Violence Act of 1991,” P.L.1991, c.261 (C.2C:25-17 et al.)
or an order entered under the provisions of a substantially similar statute under
the laws of another state or the United States.
Orders entered pursuant to paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (8) and (9) of subsection b. of
section 13 of P.L.1991, c.261 (C.2C:25-29) or substantially similar orders entered
under the laws of another state or the United States shall be excluded from the
A- 30

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

provisions of this paragraph under the laws of another state or the United States
shall be excluded from the provisions of this paragraph.
c. A person is guilty of a crime of the third degree if that person purposely or knowingly
violates any provision in an order entered under the provisions of section 3 of P.L.1996,
c.39 (C.2C:12-10.1) or section 2 of P.L.1999, c.47 (C.2C:12-10.2) or an order entered under
the provisions of a substantially similar statute under the laws of another state or the
United States when the conduct which constitutes the violation could also constitute a
crime or a disorderly persons offense.
d.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, a person is guilty of a
crime of the fourth degree if that person purposely or knowingly violates any
provision in an order entered under the provisions of P.L.2015, c.147 (C.2C:14-13
et al.) or an order entered under the provisions of a substantially similar statute
under the laws of another state or the United States when the conduct which
constitutes the violation could also constitute a crime or a disorderly persons
offense.
(2) In all other cases a person is guilty of a disorderly persons offense if that person
purposely or knowingly violates an order entered under the provisions of
P.L.2015, c.147 (C.2C:14-13 et al.) or an order entered under the provisions of a
substantially similar statute under the laws of another state or the United States.
As used in this section, “state” means a state of the United States, the District of
Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, or any territory or insular
possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. The term includes an Indian
tribe or band, or Alaskan native village, which is recognized by a federal law or formally
acknowledged by a state.

A- 31

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

XIII. ATTORNEY GENERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT DIRECTIVE NO.
2011-1 - REVISION
Directive Revising Procedures for Retaining Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence (SAFE) “Hold”
Kits and Extending the Time for Victims to Decide Whether to Report the Crime and Release
Collected Forensic Evidence to Law Enforcement Authorities.
See next page.

A- 32

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

A- 33

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

A- 34

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

A- 35

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

A- 36

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

A- 37

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

XIV. FEEDBACK FORM
See next page.

A- 38

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Date:________________________________

FEEDBACK FORM
Your opinion is very important to us because it lets us know if your needs were met and
how our services might be improved. This information is confidential. Please return t his
completed survey by using the reply envelope attached. Thank you for sharing your thoughts.
It is our goal to provide the best services we can at such a difficult time.
Please select the answer that best describes your experience with the Confidential Sexual
Violence Advocate, the Forensic Nurse Examiner, and/or the Law Enforcement Officer of the Sexual
Assault Response Team.
1.

The options for reporting to Law Enforcement, obtaining the services of the local Sexual
Violence program, and receiving a medical forensic examination and treatment were explained
to me.
 Yes  No
Comments:

2.

I was treated with respect and fairness by (check all that apply):

Law Enforcement:
 N/A  Yes  No
__________________________________________________________________
Forensic Nursing:
 N/A  Yes  No
__________________________________________________________________
Advocacy:
 N/A  Yes  No
__________________________________________________________________
Comments:

3.

Was the level of privacy provided to you acceptable?

 Yes  No
Comments:

4.
My options regarding additional follow-up by law enforcement, the local sexual violence
program, and medical care/treatment were explained to me.

Law Enforcement:
 N/A  Yes  No
__________________________________________________________________
Forensic Nursing:
 N/A  Yes  No
__________________________________________________________________
Advocacy:
 N/A  Yes  No
__________________________________________________________________
Comments:

A- 39

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Additional Feedback:
If you have any additional feedback regarding your interaction with the members of the Sexual Assault
Response Team (SART), please provide below.
Description

If you would like a member of the Statewide SART Advisory Board or the County SART Advisory
Board to follow-up with you via phone or email regarding the above issues, please provide your
contact information below.
Name
Address
Phone Number
Cell Phone Number
Email Address
Preferred Method of Phone
Contact (Circle one)

Text

Email

A- 40

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

XV. COUNTY SART ACTIVATION MEMBER SURVEY
See next page

A- 41

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Date of SART Activation: ______________

Activation Site: ________________________

County SART Activation Member Survey
A victim of sexual assault is eligible for Sexual Assault Response Team (SART) services when (1) the victim
is 13 years of age or older, (2) the assault occurred within the past five (5) days, and (3) the victim
consents to a SART activation. If a victim fits the above criteria and presents at a law enforcement agency,
healthcare facility, or a sexual violence services organization, please complete the following survey about
the SART activation. Your responses will be used to help evaluate and improve the SART program. Thank
you for your valued input.
1. Which is your discipline?

 Law Enforcement

 Forensic Nursing

 Advocacy

2. Was the victim informed about the other Team Members and their services?  Yes  No
3. Which Team Members were activated?

 Law Enforcement

 Forensic Nursing

 Advocacy

4. Was the response time of the other activated Team Members within one hour?  N/A  Yes  No
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
5. Was the working environment acceptable (e.g., condition of interview room, exam room, restroom, etc.)?
 Yes
 No
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
6. Was the level of privacy afforded to the victim acceptable?
 Yes  No
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
7. Was the level of collaboration with the other activated Team Members acceptable?
Law Enforcement:
 N/A
 Yes
 No
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
Forensic Nursing:
 N/A
 Yes  No
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
Advocacy:
 N/A
 Yes
 No
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
8. Did the victim articulate any concerns or issues with the SART activation (e.g., conditions of site,
members, response time, etc.)?  Yes  No
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
9. Additional comments and feedback about the SART activation:
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________

*Please return this survey to your County SART Coordinator within 72 hours*

A- 42

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

XVI. SEXUAL ASSAULT RESPONSE TEAM (SART) ACTIVATION
PROCESS SCRIPT
See next page.

A- 43

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

SEXUAL ASSAULT RESPONSE TEAM (SART)
ACTIVATION PROCESS SCRIPT
1. Determine if this incident is a SART Activation.
Are you thirteen years of age or older?
Yes  Proceed to the next question.
No  Contact your Sex Crimes unit during business hours @______________. During non-business hours
contact the Communications Center @ _________________.
Did the assault occur within 5 days?
Yes  It is a SART Activation. Proceed to the second step.
No  SART is not activated; however, the victim may be offered the services of a confidential sexual
violence advocate and a complete law enforcement investigation.

2. Explain the availability and purpose of the SART program and explain the roles of the
individual team members.
DESCRIPTION OF SART: Each County has a specially trained team of qualified professionals called the
Sexual Assault Response Team. It consists of a law enforcement officer, a forensic nurse examiner and a
confidential sexual violence advocate. All of these team members are available to you. I am going to tell you
what each team member can do for you.
Forensic Nurse Examiner:
A forensic nurse examiner can perform a medical forensic examination. The nurse will explain your options
and will answer any questions you may have about the examination, provide medication, address medical
concerns, and make aftercare referrals.
Law Enforcement Officer:
A law enforcement officer can gather information about what you experienced. The law enforcement officer
can take a report and start an investigation. The case will be strengthened when law enforcement obtains
information in a timely manner.
Confidential Sexual Violence Advocate:
A confidential sexual violence advocate can provide information, counseling, and support. The advocate can
discuss your options and provide a variety of resources. You have the right to speak to an advocate prior to
having a medical exam or speaking to law enforcement.
3.

Activate SART pursuant to the wishes of the victim.
All SART members are available to you. Do you want me to activate all team members?
Yes  Activate SART pursuant to your County’s SART Activation Protocol.
No  Proceed to the next question.

YES 

NO 

Which team members do you want me to activate?
 Law Enforcement
 Forensic Nursing  Advocacy  None
Selected  Activate the selected SART members pursuant to your County’s SART Activation Protocol.
None Selected  Do not activate SART

A- 44

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

XVII. STATEWIDE AND GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES
NEW JERSEY STATE OFFICE OF VICTIM WITNESS ADVOCACY (SOVWA)
DIVISION OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE
25 Market Street, 4th Floor West
Mailing Address: P.O. Box 085
Trenton, New Jersey 08625
(609) 376-2438 – Victim Witness Coordinator
(609) 376-2444 – Deputy Attorney General
1-866-326-7206 – Hotline
NEW JERSEY DIVISION ON WOMEN
DEPARTMENT OF CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
50 E. State Street
P.O. Box 729
Trenton, New Jersey 08625
(609) 888-7164
NEW JERSEY COALITION AGAINST SEXUAL ASSAULT (NJCASA)
New Jersey Coalition Against Sexual Assault
3150 Brunswick Pike, Suite 160
Lawrenceville, NJ 08648
609-631-4450
DIVISION OF DISABILITY SERVICES
NEW JERSEY DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES
11A Quakerbridge Plaza, Mercerville NJ
Mailing Address: P.O. Box 705 Trenton NJ 08625
(888) 285-3036
1-888-285-3036 – Hotline
DIVISION OF DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES
NEW JERSEY DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES
222 South Warren Street, Trenton, NJ 08608
Mailing Address: P.O. Box 726, Trenton, NJ 08625
(800) 832-9173
BUREAU OF GUARDIANSHIP SERVICES
NEW JERSEY DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES
P.O. Box 726
Trenton, NJ 08625-0726
(609) 631-2213

A- 45

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES (APS)
DIVISION OF AGING SERVICES
NEW JERSEY DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES
P.O. Box 812
Trenton, New Jersey 08625-0812
(609) 588-6501
OFFICE OF THE STATE LONG TERM CARE OMBUDSMAN
P.O. Box 852
Trenton, NJ 08625-0852
(609) 943-4023
To file a complaint:
Toll Free Intake Line: (877) 582-6995
Email: ombudsman@ltco.nj.gov
OFFICE OF THE PUBLIC GUARDIAN FOR ELDERLY ADULTS
DIVISION OF AGING SERVICES
NEW JERSEY DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES
P.O. Box 812
Trenton, NJ 08625-0812
(609) 588-6500
CHILD PROTECTION AND PERMANENCY (CP&P)
DEPARTMENT OF CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
P.O. Box 717
Trenton, NJ 08625-0717
1-877-543-7864 – Office of Advocacy
1-855-463-6323 – DCF Information Hotline
CHILD ABUSE HOTLINE
1-877-NJ-ABUSE (1-877-652-2873)
TTY 1-800-835-5510

A- 46

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

XVIII.

FORENSIC NURSING PROGRAMS BY COUNTY

Atlantic County
Forensic Nursing Program
Atlantic County Prosecutor’s Office
4997 Unami Blvd.
Mays Landing, New Jersey 08330
Office: (609) 909-7867
(609) 601-9925 ext 1037

Bergen County
Forensic Nursing Program
Bergen County Prosecutor’s Office
100 Eisenhower Drive
Paramus, New Jersey 07652
Office: (201) 226-5635

Burlington County
Forensic Nursing Program
Burlington County Prosecutor’s Office
County Courts Complex
49 Rancocas Road
P.O. Box 6000
Mount Holly, New Jersey 08060
Office: (609) 265-5894

Camden County
Forensic Nursing Program
Camden County Prosecutor’s Office
James J. Florio Center for Public Service
200 Federal Street
Camden, New Jersey 08103
Office: (856) 365-3111

Cape May County
Forensic Nursing Program
Cape May County Prosecutor’s Office
4 Moore Road, DN 110
Cape May Court House, New Jersey
08210
Office: (609) 463-5163

Cumberland County
Forensic Nursing Program
Cumberland County Prosecutor’s Office
115 Vine Street
Bridgeton, New Jersey 08302
Office: (856) 453-0486 ext 13618

Essex County
Forensic Nursing Program
Essex County Prosecutor’s Office
185 Washington Street, 2nd Floor Newark,
New Jersey 07102
Office: (973) 753-1156

Gloucester County
Forensic Nursing Program
Gloucester County Prosecutor’s Office
Justice Complex
P.O. Box 623
Woodbury, New Jersey 08096
Office: (856) 384-5555

Hudson County
Forensic Nursing Program
Hudson County Prosecutor’s Office
SV Unit, Administration Bldg., 5th Floor
595 Newark Avenue
Jersey City, New Jersey 07306
Office: (201) 795-6400, option 1, ext 6884

Hunterdon County
Forensic Nursing Program
Hunterdon County Prosecutor’s Office
Justice Complex
65 Park Avenue
P.O. Box 756
Flemington, New Jersey 08822-0756
Office: (908) 788-1739

A- 47

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Mercer County
Forensic Nursing Program
Mercer County Prosecutor’s Office
240 West State Street, 8th Floor
P.O. Box 8068
Trenton, New Jersey 08650-0068
Office: (609) 989-6350

Middlesex County
Forensic Nursing Program
Middlesex County Prosecutor’s Office
Victim Advocacy Center
100 Bayard Street, 4th Floor
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08901
Office: (732) 745-3338

Monmouth County
Forensic Nursing Program
Monmouth County Prosecutor’s Office
132 Jerseyville Avenue
Freehold, New Jersey 07728
Office: (732) 431-7160 ext 3570

Morris County
Forensic Nursing Program
Morris County Prosecutor’s Office
10 Court Street
P.O. Box 900
Morristown, New Jersey 07963-0900
Office: (973) 285-6367

Ocean County
Forensic Nursing Program
Ocean County Prosecutor’s Office
119 Hooper Avenue
P.O. Box 2191
Toms River, New Jersey 08754-2191
Office: (732) 831-7989

Passaic County
Forensic Nursing Program
Passaic County Prosecutor’s Office
30 Kings Road
Totowa, New Jersey 07512
Office: (973) 837-7652

Salem County
Forensic Nursing Program
Salem County Prosecutor’s Office
87 Market Street
P.O. Box 462
Salem, New Jersey 08079
Office: (856) 935-7510 ext 8124

Somerset County
Forensic Nursing Program
Somerset County Prosecutor’s Office
40 North Bridge Street
P.O. Box 3000
Somerville, New Jersey 08876
Office: (908) 575-3426

Sussex County
Forensic Nursing Program
Newton Medical Center
175 High Street
Newton, New Jersey 07860
Office: (973) 579-8962

Union County
Forensic Nursing Program
Union County Child Advocacy Center
240 W. Jersey Street
Elizabeth, New Jersey 07207
Office: (908) 558-6948

Warren County
Forensic Nursing Program
Warren County Prosecutor’s Office
199 Hardwick Street
Mailing: 413 Second Street
Belvidere, New Jersey 07823
(908) 475-6049

A- 48

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

XIX. VICTIM WITNESS ADVOCACY OFFICES BY COUNTY
Atlantic County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Atlantic County Prosecutor’s Office
4997 Unami Boulevard, Suite 2
P.O. Box 2002
Mays Landing, New Jersey 08330-2002
Office: (609) 909-7860

Bergen County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Bergen County Prosecutor’s Office
Bergen County Justice Center, Room 155
Hackensack, New Jersey 07601-7042
Office: (201) 646-2057

Burlington County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Burlington County Prosecutor’s Office
49 Rancocas Road, 2nd Floor
P.O. Box 6000
Mt. Holly, New Jersey 08060-6000
Office: (609) 265-5048

Camden County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Camden County Prosecutor’s Office
James J. Florio Center for Public Service
200 Federal Street
Camden, New Jersey 08103
Office: (856) 225-8440

Cape May County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Cape May County Prosecutor’s Office
4 Moore Road, DN 110
Cape May Court House, New Jersey 082101654
Office: (609) 465-3443

Cumberland County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Cumberland County Prosecutor’s Office
115 Vine Street
Bridgeton, New Jersey 08302
Office: (856) 453-0486 ext 2

Essex County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Essex County Prosecutor’s Office
Veterans Court House
50 West Market Street - 3rd Floor
Newark, New Jersey 07102-1607
Office: (973) 621-4687

Gloucester County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Gloucester County Prosecutor’s Office
Justice Complex
70 Hunter Street
P.O. Box 623
Woodbury, New Jersey 08096Office: (856) 384-5557

Hudson County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Hudson County Prosecutor’s Office
Administration Building, 6th Floor
595 Newark Avenue
Jersey City, New Jersey 07306-2394
Office: (201) 795-6508

Hunterdon County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Hunterdon County Prosecutor’s Office
65 Park Avenue
P.O. Box 756
Flemington, New Jersey 08822-0756
Office: (908) 788-1403

A- 49

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

Mercer County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Mercer County Prosecutor’s Office
240 West State Street, 8th Floor
P.O. Box 8068
Trenton, New Jersey 08650-0068
Office: (609) 989-6428

Middlesex County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Middlesex County Prosecutor’s Office
25 Kirkpatrick Street, 3rd Floor
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08901-1968
Office: (732) 745-3394

Monmouth County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Monmouth County Prosecutor’s Office
132 Jerseyville Avenue
Freehold, New Jersey 07728-2374
Office: (732) 431-6459

Morris County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Morris County Prosecutor’s Office
10 Court Street
P.O. Box 900
Morristown, New Jersey 07963-0900
Office: (973) 285-6200 ext 6

Ocean County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Ocean County Prosecutor’s Office
119 Hooper Avenue
P.O. Box 2191
Toms River, New Jersey 08754-2191
Office: (732) 929-2195

Passaic County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Passaic County Prosecutor’s Office
401 Grand Street, 6th Floor
Paterson, New Jersey 07505-2027
Office: (973) 881-4887

Salem County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Salem County Prosecutor’s Office
Fenwick Building, 2nd Floor
87 Market Street
P.O. Box 462
Salem, New Jersey 08079-0462
Office: (856) 935-7510 ext 8630

Somerset County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Somerset County Prosecutor’s Office
40 North Bridge Street
P.O. Box 3000
Somerville, New Jersey 08876-2111
Office: (908) 575-3359

Sussex County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Sussex County Prosecutor’s Office
19-21 High Street
Newton, New Jersey 07860-1725
Office: (973) 383-1570 ext 4521

Union County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Union County Prosecutor’s Office
32 Rahway Avenue, 1st Floor
Elizabeth, New Jersey 07202-2115
Office: (908) 527-4596

Warren County
Office of Victim-Witness Advocacy
Warren County Prosecutor’s Office
Court House, 413 Second St.
Belvidere, New Jersey 07823-1528
Office: (908) 475-6284

A- 50

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

XX. CONFIDENTIAL SEXUAL VIOLENCE SERVICES
ORGANIZATIONS BY COUNTY
ATLANTIC COUNTY
Avanzar
1201 New Road
Linwood, New Jersey 08221
24 Hr. Hotline: (800) 286-4148
Text Line: (609) 569-5437
Office: (609) 601-9925

BERGEN COUNTY
HealingSpace
YWCA of Bergen County
215 State Street, Suite 207
Hackensack, New Jersey 07601
24 Hr. Hotline: (201) 487-2227
Office: (201) 881-1700

BURLINGTON COUNTY
CONTACT of Burlington County
P.O. Box 333
Moorestown, New Jersey 08057
24 Hr. Hotline: (856) 234-8888
Office: (856) 234-5484

CAMDEN COUNTY
Services Empowering Rights of Victims (SERV) –
Center for Family Services, Inc.
584 Benson Street
Camden, New Jersey 08103
24 Hr. Hotline: 1-866-295-SERV [7378]
Office: (856) 964-1990 ext 232

CAPE MAY COUNTY
C.A.R.A. Inc.
P.O. Box 774
Cape May Court House, New Jersey 08210
24 Hr. Hotline: 1-877-294-CARA [2272]
TTY: (609) 463-0818
Office: (609) 522-6489

CUMBERLAND COUNTY
Services Empowering Rights of Victims (SERV) –
Center for Family Services, Inc.
3600 East Landis Avenue, Unit 24
Vineland, New Jersey 08361
24 Hr. Hotline: 1-800-225-0196
Office: (856) 696-2032

ESSEX COUNTY
Family Service League / SAVE of Essex County
60 South Fullerton Avenue, Suite 109
Montclair, New Jersey 07042
24 Hr. Hotline: 1-877-733-CARE [2273]
Office: (973) 746-0800

GLOUCESTER COUNTY
Services Empowering Rights of Victims (SERV) –
Center for Family Services, Inc.
584 Benson Street
Camden, New Jersey 08103
24 Hr. Hotline: 1-866-295-SERV [7378]
Office: (856) 881-4034

HUDSON COUNTY
Hudson Speaks
179 Palisades Avenue
Jersey City, New Jersey 07306
24 Hr. Hotline: (201) 795-5757
Office: (201) 795-8741

HUNTERDON COUNTY
SAFE in Hunterdon
47 E. Main Street
Flemington, New Jersey 08822
24 Hr. Hotline: 1-888-988-4032
Local Hotline: (908) 788-4044
Text: (908) 455-2927
Office: (908) 788-7666

A- 51

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

MERCER COUNTY
Womanspace, Inc.
1530 Brunswick Avenue
Lawrenceville, New Jersey 08648
Statewide Hotline: 1-800-572-SAFE [7233]
24 Hr. Hotline: (609) 394-9000
Text: (609) 619-1888
Office: (609) 394-0136

MIDDLESEX COUNTY
Middlesex County Center for Empowerment
29 Oakwood Avenue
Edison, New Jersey 08837
24 Hr. Hotline: 1-877-665-7273
Office: (732) 321-1189

MONMOUTH COUNTY
180 Turning Lives Around
One Bethany Road, Building 3, Suite 42
Hazlet, New Jersey 07730
24 Hr. Hotline: 1-888-264-7273
Text: (732) 977-2832 (Mon-Fri 9am-5pm) and
(732) 977-2766 (nights, weekends, holidays)
Office: (732) 264-7273

MORRIS COUNTY
Morris CARES
95 Mt. Kemble Avenue
ABH Box #52
Morristown, New Jersey 07960
24 Hr. Hotline: (973) 829-0587
Office: (973) 971-4754

OCEAN COUNTY
Rape Crisis Services – Long Beach Island
Community Center
4700 Long Beach Boulevard
Long Beach Township, New Jersey 08008
24 Hr. Hotline: (609) 494-1090
Office: (609) 494-1554

PASSAIC COUNTY
Passaic County Women’s Center
1027 Madison Avenue
Paterson, New Jersey 07501
24 Hr. Hotline: (973) 881-1450TTY: (973) 9930183 or 993-0186
Office: (973) 881-0725

SALEM COUNTY
Salem County Women’s Services –
Sexual Assault/Rape Crisis
P.O. Box 125
Salem, New Jersey 08079-0125
24 Hr. Hotline: (856) 935-6655
Toll free: 1-888-632-9511TTY: (856) 935-7118
Office: (856) 935-6655

SOMERSET COUNTY
Zufall Health Center
71 Fourth Street
Somerville, New Jersey 08876
24 Hr. Hotline: (908) 526-7444
TTY: (908) 809-1597
Office: (908) 526-2335 ext 124

SUSSEX COUNTY
Domestic Abuse and Sexual Assault Intervention
(DASI)
P.O. Box 805
Newton, New Jersey 07860
24 Hr. Hotline: (973) 875-1211
TTY: (973) 875-6369
Text: (973) 222-2593
Office: (973) 300-5609

UNION COUNTY
Union County Rape Crisis Center
300 North Avenue East
Westfield, New Jersey 07090
24 Hr. Hotline: (908) 233-7273
TTY: (908) 232-1435
Office: (908) 233-7273 ext 1

A- 52

ATTORNEY GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PROVIDING SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT

WARREN COUNTY
Domestic Abuse & Sexual Assault Crisis Center
(DASACC)
Georgette Molloy Center, 29c Broad Street
P.O. Box 88
Washington, New Jersey 07882-0088
24-Hr. Hotline: (908) 453-4181
Office: (908) 453-4121 ext 500

A- 53

