New Jersey Revised Statutes Section 47:4-2 (2025) - Address confidentiality for certain individuals. :: 2025 New Jersey Revised Statutes :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 N.J. Rev. Stat. (here) 2024 N.J. Rev. Stat. 2023 N.J. Rev. Stat. View All Versions 2025 New Jersey Revised Statutes Title 47 - Public Records Section 47:4-2 - Address confidentiality for certain individuals. Universal Citation: NJ Rev Stat § 47:4-2 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next 47:4-2 Address confidentiality for certain individuals. 47:4-2. The Legislature finds that persons attempting to escape from actual or threatened domestic violence, stalking, or sexual assault, and reproductive health service patients and providers may establish new addresses to prevent their assailants or other individuals from finding them. The purpose of this act is to enable public agencies to respond to requests for public records without disclosing the location of a victim of domestic violence, stalking, or sexual assault, or reproductive health service patients and providers, to enable interagency cooperation with the Director of the Division on Women in the Department of Children and Families in providing address confidentiality for victims of domestic violence, stalking, and sexual assault, and reproductive health service patients and providers, and to enable public agencies to accept a program participant's use of an address designated by the director as a substitute mailing address. amended 2019, c.175, s.1. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. New Jersey may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Clarence Robert Dobronski III Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › (734) 892-2069 Plymouth, MI Business Law, Collections, Real Estate Law, Consumer Law, Communications & Internet Law Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions