VCCO-Paper Application - New Jersey Office of Attorney General VCCO-Paper Application Paper Application Download the file below , read the instructions carefully and fill out the claim application. Also include copies of as much related information (i.e. copies of itemized receipts, bills, insurance statements) as you have. The more information we have now, the sooner your application can be processed. You can send more itemized bills later as you receive them. The VCCO will send you a letter when your application is received. If you have not received a letter after four weeks, please call the VCCO. Keep in touch. If you move or if your phone number changes, please let us know. Eligibility The crime must have occurred in New Jersey or a New Jersey resident victimized outside of the State. The victim must have reported the crime to police within 9 months* The victim must cooperate with reasonable request of the investigation and prosecution of the crime The claim must be filed within 5 years of the date of the crime* * Consideration will be taken if good cause exists for delayed filing Application and Instructions (PDF) (effective 8/1/20) Aplicación e Instrucciones en Español (Vigente.1.8.20) lector de pdf gratuito *La aplicación en español aún no ha sido actualizada, pero la puedes seguir usando para solicitar asistencia. Claims Processing System Quick Links Online Application Paper Application Eligibility Requirements Benefits VCCO Benefits and Eligibility Overview Contacting VCCO Other Resources County Prosecutors and Victim Witness Offices V.I.N.E. Victim Information Notification Every Day Rape Crisis Centers and Domestic Violence Shelters List Frequently Asked Questions Forms/Resources Below you will find forms useful for Victims, Providers. Some of the following resources are of use to both Victims and Providers. Attorney Authorization Form Third Party Disclosure - Agency Third Party Disclosure Consent Form Yearly Evaluation of Mental Health Employer Letter Physical Therapist Physician Certification Psychological Assessment Authorization Mental Health Providers List Mental Health Counseling Fee Schedule VICTIMS OF CRIME COMPENSATION OFFICE Victims Providers Appeals About Us The Law & Victim Rights About the Director Outreach Materials Annual Reports Employment Frequently Asked Questions QUICK LINKS Online Application Eligibility Requirements Benefits Fact vs. Fiction Contacting VCCO Other Resources County Prosecutors and Victim Witness Offices V.I.N.E. Victim Information Notification Every Day Rape Crisis Centers and Domestic Violence Shelters List