13:75-1.4 Definitions
The following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise.
"Child" means an unmarried person who is under 18 years of age and includes a stepchild or an adopted child.
"Child care/day care services" means those services that involve supervising and/or tending to the needs of a
child or an adult who may or may not have been physically injured as a result of a crime where such services
would enable a victim, spouse, surviving spouse of a deceased victim, or guardian to continue employment
rather than incur a loss of earnings because of the need to provide care for an adult or minor victim or a
dependent adult or child of a victim. Also included are after care services for school-age children for the period
between school dismissal and the time a parent, guardian, or one delegated the responsibility, picks up the
child, and before-care services for any additional period required prior to the start of the school day.
"Claimant" means the person applying for compensation, who may or may not also be the victim of the crime
that forms the basis for the application for compensation.
"Decedent" means a person who is deceased.
"Dependent" means:
1. A relative of a deceased victim who was wholly or partially dependent upon the victim's income at the time
of the victim's death and shall include the child of a victim born after the victim's death; and
2. A victim who relied upon an offender for financial support.
"Direct victim" means the person who is injured or killed as a result of a crime. In the case of criminal
homicide, "direct victim" shall also mean the spouse, parent, legal guardian, grandparent, child, sibling,
domestic or civil union partner of the decedent, or parent of the decedent's child.
"Domestic help" means those services to the victim or claimant that are not medically related. Domestic help
includes those services that provide needed day-to-day living support for the victim or claimant because of
injuries related to their victimization, including housecleaning, laundry tasks, cooking, and companionship and
provide assistance so that the victim may take prescribed medicine and do simple therapeutic exercises.
"Family" means a spouse, parent, grandparent, stepfather, stepmother, child, grandchild, great-grandchild,
brother, sister, half-brother, half-sister, or spouse's parents.
"Legal assistance" means assistance provided to a crime victim in the enforcement of victims' rights in all:
1. Courts;
2. Family law matters, including, but not limited to, child protection actions, divorce, custody, parenting time,
child support, emancipation, dependency, guardianship, and family reunification;
3. Obtaining protective and restraining orders;
4. Employment matters, including, but not limited to, wage and hour claims;
5. Accessing public benefits;
6. Life planning; and
7. Any other situation for which an eligible crime victim needs legal services related to the victimization.
"Office" means the Victims of Crime Compensation Office. The Office is located at 50 Park Place, 5th Floor,
Newark, NJ 07102.

"Other sources" means any source of money, benefits, or advantages received or receivable by a claimant or
victim, except that life insurance payments and private donations received by the dependents of the victim
shall not be considered as other sources.
"Out-of-pocket expenses" means crime-related financial losses for which the victim or claimant is responsible
and for which there are no other sources available to reimburse the losses.
"Person in close relationship" means any person, whether related by blood or adoption or not, who was
actually domiciled with the direct victim on the date of the crime for which assistance is sought; any person
who is no longer living with the direct victim but who has the legal responsibility to care for a child they have
in common by birth or adoption, solely where the treatment or presence of said person is medically required
for the successful treatment of the child; any person who has publicly announced his or her engagement to
become married to the direct victim prior to the commission of the criminal act and who remains engaged to
the direct victim at the time of the crime; or any other person whom the Office deems, under all the
circumstances of a particular case, to have had a close personal relationship with the direct victim.
"Personal injury" means actual bodily harm and includes pregnancy and mental or emotional trauma.
"Relative" of any person means the person's spouse, parent, grandparent, stepparent, child, grandchild, greatgrandchild, brother, sister, half-brother, half-sister, or parent of the person's spouse.
"Relevant evidence" means evidence having a tendency to prove or disprove any fact of consequence to the
determination of the action and that is deemed to be admissible under the rules of evidence. It does not include
rumor, supposition, speculation, hearsay, or opinion, except as otherwise deemed admissible under the rules of
evidence.
"Restitution" means financial compensation for the injury, losses, or damages incurred as a result of the crime,
which is ordered by the court at the time of the offender's criminal sentencing. Restitution paid directly to a
victim shall be considered an "other source" for purposes of determining the amount of compensation to be
allowed on any claim.
"Review Board" or "Board" means the Victims of Crime Compensation Review Board established by N.J.S.A.
52:4B-3.2.
"Secondary victim" means any person who has sustained an injury or pecuniary loss as a direct result of a
crime committed upon any member of the secondary victim's family or upon any person in close relationship
to such secondary victim.
"Victim" means a person who suffers personal, physical, or psychological injury or death as a result of the
conduct of another person who commits against that person any of the offenses specified at N.J.S.A. 52:4B-11,
or an act by a juvenile that, if committed by an adult, would constitute a violation of any of these offenses. The
term shall include, in the case of a criminal homicide or an act by a juvenile that, if committed by an adult,
would constitute a criminal homicide, the spouse, parent, legal guardian, grandparent, child, sibling, domestic
or civil union partner of the decedent, or parent of the decedent's child.
"Victim's representative" or "representative" means any person who represents or stands in the place of a
victim or claimant for the purpose of filing an application for compensation with the Office, including, but not
limited to, a spouse, parent, relative, guardian, dependent, heir, or executor.

13:75-1.5 Attorney representation
(a) Claimants have the right to be represented at all stages of the application process and at any review or
appeal by the Review Board, by an attorney-at-law duly licensed to practice in the State of New Jersey, or
qualified to make such appearance pursuant to the Rules Governing the Courts of New Jersey.
(b) Every attorney providing representation to a claimant seeking compensation shall file a notice of
appearance with the Office.
(c) If any claimant designates an attorney to represent him or her in connection with his or her dealings with
the Office, and the attorney has executed and filed the appropriate notice, the notice shall remain in effect
until:
1. The claimant files a written revocation of the attorney's authorization;
2. The attorney files a written statement of his or her withdrawal from the case;
3. The attorney states on the record at a Review Board hearing that he or she is withdrawing from the case; or
4. The Office receives notice of the attorney's death or disqualification.
(d) After the filing of a notice of appearance or substitution in accordance with this section, and as long as such
notice may remain in effect, copies of all written communications or notices to the claimant shall be sent to
such attorney in lieu of the claimant or, at the Office's discretion, to both the claimant and his or her attorney.
Service upon the attorney shall be service upon the claimant represented.

13:75-1.6 Requests for inspection or copies of records maintained by the
Office
(a) The Office shall designate a custodian of all government records under the control of the agency in
accordance with N.J.S.A. 47:1A-1 et seq. It shall be the responsibility of the custodian to see that all
government records and statistical information related to claims is readily available for inspection, copying, or
examination by citizens of this State.
(b) The files maintained by the Office that relate directly to the handling of any claim for compensation filed
by a victim or claimant are not government records subject to disclosure under the Open Public Records Act
and shall be considered confidential. Victim and claimant files and records shall not be open to inspection by
any person unless authorized by law or court order.

13:75-1.7 Availability of forms and rules
The Office shall prepare and furnish, free of cost, and shall have available on request, such forms and rules as
the Office determines necessary to fulfill its statutory function. Such forms shall include, but not be limited to,
claim applications, catastrophic applications, medical report and earnings record authorizations, counseling
services request, and subrogation agreements

13:75-1.8 Validity of rules if any portion declared invalid
If any portion of these rules, or the application thereof, shall be adjudged or declared to be invalid, or

inoperative, or if by statutory amendment any rules shall lose its force and effect, such judgment or amendment
shall not affect, impair, or void the remainder of these rules.

13:75-1.9 Procedure to request Office action to promulgate, amend, or
repeal rules
(a) Persons requesting action to promulgate, amend, or repeal any rule in this chapter shall comply with
N.J.S.A. 52:14B-4(f) and any implementing rules as adopted by the Office of Administrative Law.
(b) Persons making a request under (a) above may obtain forms for petitioning this Office's rules from the
Office.
(c) When considering the petition, the Office shall comply with timelines and procedures contained in N.J.S.A.
52:14B-4(f).

13:75-1.10 Time of decision
Any decision on a claim application shall be governed by the administrative rules and standards in effect at the
time an application is filed, so that all decisions relating to the application are subject to the rules in effect at
the time of application, except where otherwise specifically provided in State or Federal law.

13:75-2.1 Eligibility of claims
(a) The Office may order the payment of compensation for personal injury or death resulting from an attempt
to prevent the commission of a crime or to arrest a suspected criminal or in aiding or attempting to aid a police
officer in doing so.
(b) The Office may order the payment of compensation for personal injury or death resulting from the
commission or attempt to commit any of the following offenses:
1. Aggravated assault;
2. Threats to do bodily harm;
3. Lewd, indecent, or obscene acts;
4. Indecent acts with children;
5. Kidnapping;
6. Murder;
7. Manslaughter;
8. Aggravated sexual assault;
9. Sexual assault;
10. Aggravated criminal sexual contact;
11. Criminal sexual contact;
12. Any other crime involving violence, including, but not limited to, robbery or arson;
13. Domestic violence, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2C:25-19;
14. Burglary;
15. Tampering with a cosmetic, drug, or food product;
16. Human trafficking pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2C:13-8;
17. Bias intimidation in accordance with N.J.S.A. 2C:16-1;
18. Criminal stalking pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2C:12-10;
19. Vehicular homicide;
20. Assault by auto;

21. Simple assault pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2C:12-1;
22. Disorderly conduct pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2C:33-2; or
23. Eligibility of claims involving a motor vehicle, vessel, airplane, or commercial vehicle in which one or
more of the following situations occurred:
i. The victim was injured in the commission of a violation of N.J.S.A. 39:4-50 (Driving while Intoxicated);
ii. The victim was injured in the commission of a violation of N.J.S.A. 39:3-10.13 (Operating a Commercial
Vehicle while Intoxicated);
iii. The victim was injured in the commission of a violation of N.J.S.A. 12:7-46 (Penalties for Operating
Vessel Under the Influence);
iv. Theft of an automobile pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2C:20-2.1;
v. Eluding a law enforcement officer pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2C:29-2b;
vi. Unlawful taking of a motor vehicle pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2C:20-10b, c, or d, where injuries to the victim
occur in the course of operating an automobile in furtherance of the offense; or
vii. A motor vehicle, vessel, airplane, or commercial vehicle is used as a weapon, including, but not limited to,
as a vehicle to carry explosives with intent to detonate the same to inflict a deliberate injury, the Office shall
consider such use as a compensable "crime involving violence" as set forth in N.J.S.A. 52:4B-11(b)(10).
(c) Eligible victims may also include:
1. Non-residents and Federal crime victims on the same basis as State residents who are victims of a crime
committed in the State;
2. Residents of the State injured in a foreign jurisdiction where said jurisdiction is without a victim
compensation program; and/or
3. Residents of the State who have received a final determination from a foreign jurisdiction as to a claim filed
with a victim's compensation program in that foreign jurisdiction that has not fully compensated the victim or
claimant for all out-of-pocket and unreimbursed and unreimbursable expenses, except that:
i. Where residents of the State are injured in a foreign state, said foreign state has primary jurisdiction, and the
Office will not entertain a claim for compensation until the victim or claimant has fully exhausted all available
procedures for victim's compensation in said foreign state.
(d) Where the victim of a crime has died as a direct result thereof, the Office may award compensation to the
following persons:
1. A surviving spouse, parent, child, or stepchild of the deceased victim who has suffered economic loss;
2. Any relative of the deceased victim who was dependent upon the victim for support, or any person who has
cohabitated with the victim/decedent and who can establish by a preponderance of evidence that a dependency
existed at the time of death of the victim. In examining the issue of loss of support as it relates to this
paragraph, the Office shall consider any factor it deems relevant;
3. The relative, estate of, or other natural persons who have demonstrated out-of-pocket unreimbursed and
unreimbursable medical and funeral expenses for which they have become responsible on behalf of the
decedent due to the incident upon which the claim is based.
(e) Any claimant who is held by the Office to be responsible for the crime upon which a claim is based, or is
held to have been an accomplice or conspirator of the offender, is not eligible for compensation.
(f) No award will be made if compensation to the victim or claimant proves to be substantial unjust enrichment
to the offender.
1. Where the enrichment is inconsequential or minimal, compensation may not be denied nor reduced.
2. The factors to be considered in determining whether the unjust enrichment is substantial include, but are not
limited to:
i. The amount of the award and whether it is made directly to the claimant or victim;
ii. Whether the offender has access to any cash payments coming into the household on behalf of the claimant
or victim;
iii. Whether the award is essential to the well-being of the claimant or victim and other innocent and dependent
family members;
iv. The amount of living expenses paid by the offender before and during the dependency of the claim;
v. If a significant portion of the award will be used directly by the offender for living expenses;
vi. The legal responsibilities of the offender to the claimant or victim;

vii. Collateral resources available from the offender, which resources include, but are not limited to, courtordered restitution or support, and insurance and pension benefits. However, life insurance payments and
private donations received by the dependents of the victim shall not be considered as collateral resources.
(1) In evaluating collateral resources, the Office may consider whether the offender has a legal responsibility to
pay, whether the offender has resources to pay, and whether payment is likely.
(2) The claimant or victim may not be penalized for failure of the offender to meet his or her obligation to pay
for the costs of the victim's recovery; and
viii. The offender's cooperation in providing the Office with information concerning medical insurance
coverage and any other information necessary to make a determination.
(g) The Office may reduce an award for compensation where the victim has not paid in full any payments
owed on assessments imposed pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2C:43-3.1 or restitution ordered following conviction for a
crime by deducting the amount owed and making the payments on behalf of the victim to satisfy these
obligations.
(h) The Office shall not deny an award for compensation to a victim or claimant who has any non-indictable
warrants or pending criminal charges. If a court-ordered bench warrant for the victim or claimant's arrest is
issued for an indictable offense and remains active, the Office may make an award for compensation if there
exists an emergent need. Compensation for emergency housing in order to protect the victim's physical safety
shall never be denied due to a victim's criminal status.
1. Except in the case of an otherwise eligible innocent child or incompetent victim, if the parent of guardian of
such victim is subject to this provision, the parent or guardian shall file the claim on behalf of the minor as a
victim's representative only and shall not be eligible for any independent benefit or compensation otherwise
available to claimants. Limited compensation may be awarded for those expenses and services that will
directly benefit the innocent child victim.
2. Upon submission to the Office of verification from the court that the bench warrant, criminal complaint, or
indictment has been dismissed or otherwise disposed of, a victim or claimant may petition the Office to reopen
the claim.
(i) If a victim is injured while serving a non-custodial sentence or while incarcerated for reasons other than
conviction of a crime, the Office may consider an award of compensation and shall take all relevant matters
into consideration including, but not limited to, the following:
1. The availability of funds as appropriated by the State in awarding compensation;
2. Whether the victim assumed a reasonable risk of injury under all the circumstances of the case;
3. Whether the victim had reason to believe that his or her actions would result in arrest, conviction, sentence,
and incarceration;
4. The likelihood of the victim's conviction for the allegations serving as the basis for the victim's
incarceration;
5. The nature of the offense and the sentence imposed; and
6. The disposition of the charges by the criminal justice system.
(j) Factors the Office may consider in denying a claimant's eligibility include, but are not limited to:
1. Provocation;
2. Consent;
3. Participation in an illegal activity or behavior on the part of the victim that directly or indirectly contributed
to his or her injury or death;
4. The prior case history of the victim, including matters pertaining to the victim's medical history and whether
the victim cooperated with reasonable requests of law enforcement authorities or showed a compelling health
or safety reason why they could not cooperate;
5. In determining whether to limit or deny an award for compensation due to the victim's contributory conduct,
the Office may consider any facts that provide relevant evidence as to whether the victim's conduct was the
proximate cause of the victim's injury or death. The Office may reduce the amount of the award or reject the
application where it determines that the victim's conduct was the proximate cause of their injury or death. The
Office shall provide compensation for emergency, temporary housing for an at-risk victim, regardless of
contributory conduct, where a public safety issue exists; and
6. Notwithstanding any other provision of N.J.S.A. 52:4B-1 et seq., to the contrary, the Office may make a
limited award for funeral benefits, mental health counseling, loss of support for dependent children, and

attorneys' fees in cases of criminal homicide when there is a determination that the victim's conduct was a
contributing factor to the victim's death. The Office shall not deem any conduct of the victim a contributing
factor toward the victim's injury, if the facts demonstrate that the conduct occurred during efforts by a victim
to prevent a crime or to apprehend either a person who had committed a crime in the victim's presence or a
person who had in fact committed a crime.
(k) The Office may deny or reduce an award if it is determined that the victim was not wearing protective
equipment such as a safety belt or if the victim is the operator of a second vehicle and does not have
automobile insurance as required by law. Factors the Office may consider include, but are not limited to, the
extent to which the deficiency contributed to the resulting injuries and victim's knowledge of the deficiency.
(l) An award for compensation may be made whether or not any person is prosecuted or convicted for the
crime giving rise to the claim.

13:75-2.2 Impact of intoxication on eligibility
(a) No compensation shall be awarded to any passenger in a motor vehicle, vessel, or commercial vehicle who
knew or reasonably should have known that the driver was operating the vehicle or vessel while intoxicated or
under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
1. "Under the influence" as used in this section means the substantial deterioration or diminution of mental
faculties or physical capabilities of a person whether due to intoxicating liquor, narcotics, hallucinogenic, or
habit-producing drugs, and/or other substance that leads to the substantial deterioration or diminution of
mental faculties or physical capabilities of a person.
(b) A victim may be eligible for compensation even though the offender is not convicted of a violation under
N.J.S.A. 39:4-50, 39:3-10.13, or 12:7-46, or a blood alcohol test was not administered to the offender.
However, the victim or claimant must demonstrate by a preponderance of the credible evidence that the
incident involved driving a vehicle or operating a vessel while under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
(c) In any matter involving a violation of N.J.S.A. 39:4-50, 12:7-46, or 39:3-10.13, the following factors will
be taken into account:
1. A blood alcohol reading of 0.08 percent is prima facie evidence of a violation of N.J.S.A. 39:4-50 or 12:746;
2. A blood alcohol reading in excess of 0.05 percent but less than 0.08 percent will not give rise to a
presumption that the offender was or was not under the influence of intoxicating liquor, but such fact may be
considered with any other competent evidence;
3. A blood alcohol reading of 0.05 percent or less may give rise to the presumption that the offender was not
under the influence of intoxicating liquor; and
4. A blood alcohol reading of 0.04 percent is prima facie evidence of a violation of N.J.S.A. 39:3-10.13,
operating a commercial vehicle while under the influence.

13:75-2.3 Secondary victim eligibility
(a) Secondary victims need not be present during the actual commission of the crime.
(b) In assessing the eligibility of secondary victims, the Office will be guided by N.J.S.A. 52:4B-10 and 18,
N.J.A.C. 13:75-2.1, and any other factors deemed relevant based on the particular circumstances of the
application.

13:75-2.4 Eligibility of claimants for personal injury resulting from the
crime of burglary

(a) Pursuant to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 52:4B-11b(11), the Office shall make an award to eligible victims of
the crime of burglary when an actor, without license or privilege, enters a structure not open to the public with
the purpose of committing another offense, other than trespass or entry, or remains in a structure knowing that
there is no license or privilege to do so.
(b) "Structure" as used in this section, shall mean any residence, building, room, or any place adapted for
overnight accommodation of a person. For purpose of this section, a motor vehicle is not to be considered a
"structure."
(c) In order to be eligible to receive compensation as a victim of the crime of burglary, the victim must have:
1. Been a resident, owner, or invited guest of the structure burglarized;
2. Been present in the structure at the time of the burglary and either witnessed the burglary itself or
subsequently observed the results thereof; and
3. Suffered physical and/or emotional distress directly related to the burglary.
(d) A secondary victim may be eligible for compensation under this section only if the criteria in (c)2 and 3
above have been satisfied.
(e) No award shall be made for loss or theft of personal property secondary to a burglary.

13:75-2.5 Investigation of claims
(a) All claimants must fully cooperate with investigators, agents, and/or representatives of the Office in order
to be eligible for any award.
(b) All claimants shall advise the Office of any and all changes of address and residence to permit the Office to
properly process the claim petition. In the event that such cooperation is refused or denied, the Office may, in
its discretion, deny such claim.

13:75-2.6 Determinations, presumptions, and burdens of proof
(a) Any person filing an application for compensation has the burden of proof as to eligibility of the claim filed
and as to all of its elements and items of compensation. This burden of proof is met by presenting credible
evidence to support the application.
(b) In determining whether a victim's conduct was the proximate cause of the victim's injury or death, the
Office may give substantial weight to conclusions of investigative law enforcement agencies and dispositions
of criminal proceedings including, but not limited to, guilty pleas and jury verdicts, but, considered along with
all other relevant evidence, the ultimate determination made on any application is within the discretion of the
Office. Relevant evidence shall not include rumor, supposition, speculation, hearsay, or opinion, except as
otherwise deemed admissible under the rules of evidence.

13:75-3.1 Filing of claims
(a) All claim applications must be filed within five years after the date of the incident upon which the claim is
based or, if after that date, upon a determination by the Office that good cause exists for the delayed filing.
Good cause includes, but is not limited to, instances where the victim or the victim's dependents were not
appropriately informed of the benefits offered by the Office as required by law.
1. Good cause for a delay in filing may be found where:
i. The victim or claimant provides sufficient reasons, based on the totality of the circumstances, to demonstrate
that his or her crime-induced incapacity prevented the timely filing of a claim;
ii. The late filing of the application does not prejudice the ability of the Office to verify a victim/claimant's
eligibility; and

iii. In instances where the victim, or the victim's dependents, were not properly informed of the benefits
offered by the Office, as required by law.
2. If the victim is under 18 years-of-age, the five-year limit on filing shall commence on the day the victim
turns 18 years old.
3. In the case of child sexual abuse, defined as an act of sexual contact or sexual penetration between a child
under the age of 18 and an adult, an application for compensation shall be filed within five years after
reasonable discovery of the injury and its causal relationship to an act of child sexual abuse, unless good cause
is shown, in accordance with N.J.S.A. 2A:61B-1.
i. The totality of the circumstances that should be considered in assessing the reasonableness of the late filing
of the victim's claim shall include: the victim's age at the time the sexual abuse occurred; any threats the
wrongdoer may have made to the victim; the length of time that passed between the end of the abuse and the
emergence of the claimed injury; the nature of the claimed injury; and the difficulty in discovering certain
injuries.
ii. The burden of proof rests with the victim/claimant and may be established through presenting evidence
including the submission of a report from a medical professional.
(b) The incident must have been reported to the police or other appropriate law enforcement agency within
nine months of its occurrence or the date from which the victim or claimant had knowledge or reason to
believe that a crime had occurred. The Office reserves the right to, upon determination that good cause exists
for the delayed filing, make an exception to the requirement that the incident be reported to the police within
the stated time period.
1. Good cause for a delay in filing or reporting the incident to police or other appropriate law enforcement
agency may be found where:
i. The victim or claimant provides sufficient reasons, based on the totality of the circumstances, to demonstrate
that the incident could not be reported to the police or other appropriate law enforcement agency within the
time prescribed; and
ii. The late reporting of the incident to police does not prejudice the ability of the Office to verify a victim's or
claimant's eligibility.
(c) All claims must be filed on official forms that include a signed authorization for securing medical and other
necessary records and a subrogation or civil assignment of interest agreement. The official forms may be
obtained by requesting them in person, by telephone, through the mail at 50 Park Place, 5th floor, Newark,
New Jersey 07102, or through the Office's official Internet website at http://www.state.nj.us/victims.
(d) If a claim is made by a minor, as defined under New Jersey law, the forms shall be signed by a victim's
representative, parent, or guardian.
(e) If a claim is made by a person who is mentally incapacitated, the forms shall be signed by the victim's
representative, the person's guardian, or such other individual who is authorized to administer his or her estate.
(f) At the time of filing the claim, the victim will be provided with any available referrals for counseling and
other social services.

13:75-4.1 General provisions
(a) The Office may order the payment of compensation for expenses actually and reasonably incurred as a
result of the personal injury or death of the victim.
1. Reimbursable expenses include those unreimbursed and unreimbursable out-of-pocket expenses or
indebtedness for medical care or other necessary services, loss of earnings, loss of support, pecuniary loss to
the dependents of deceased victims, and other reasonable pecuniary loss resulting from the personal injury or
death of the victim.
(b) Subject to the availability of funds, the Office may award payment for such allowable expenses that the
Office determines to be reimbursable within the scope of this chapter, such as charges for reasonably needed
products and services, medical care, rehabilitation, rehabilitative occupational training, and other remedial
treatment and care.

(c) Where the Office determines that, because of the victim's conduct, the victim was the proximate cause of
his or her injury, the Office may limit the amount of the award, reduce it, or deny compensation altogether.
1. Where an award is to be limited or reduced due to contribution or other circumstances relating to the
victim's behavior or action, said award shall not exceed $ 12,500 in the aggregate. In homicide cases where the
victim contributed to his or her death, the Office may make a limited award for funeral benefits, mental health
counseling, loss of support for dependent children, and attorneys' fees.
(d) Every victim or claimant seeking compensation from the Office shall produce verification and provide
evidence of all losses and injuries claimed as compensable items in his or her application. Only those losses
and injuries for which verification and evidence is produced shall be considered for compensation.
(e) In making its award, the Office shall make no allowance for pain and suffering.
(f) Except as otherwise permitted by this chapter, no compensation shall be awarded for loss of personal
property or property damage.
(g) Except for cases determined to be catastrophic in nature, no compensation shall be awarded in an amount in
excess of $ 25,000.
1. The Office may, within its discretion, prioritize and attempt to compromise the various items of payment for
any claim in the event it determines that the maximum amount of $ 25,000 payable is likely to be reached.
2. The maximum award of $ 25,000 shall remain in effect until statutory law provides otherwise.
(h) Claims for compensation shall expire based on the following dates:
1. For incidents occurring on or after June 26, 1995, and on or before November 29, 2010, any claim for
compensation shall expire five years after the entry of an initial determination order. No further order is to be
entered with regard to the claim, except for claims that are determined to be catastrophic in nature, or for
requests for payment of specific out-of-pocket expenses received by the Office prior to the expiration of the
five-year period, or for expenses for which the Office had notice or should reasonably have known existed
prior to the expiration of the stated five-year limit;
2. For incidents occurring on or after November 30, 2010, and on or before July 15, 2012, payment for
compensation shall expire after five years, except that compensation may be awarded after the expiration of the
five-year period upon a determination by the Office that compelling circumstances exist justifying the payment
of a claim beyond the five-year limit;
3. For incidents occurring on or after July 16, 2012, and before August 1, 2020, payment for compensation
shall expire 10 years after the entry of an initial determination order, which shall not include administrative
closures, and no further order is to be entered with regard to the claim, except:
i. For requests for payment of specific out-of-pocket expenses received by the Office prior to the expiration of
the 10-year period;
ii. In those cases determined by the Office to be catastrophic in nature; and
iii. For requests for payments of expenses that were incurred only after the expiration of the 10-year period;
and
4. For incidents occurring on or after August 1, 2020, eligible claims for compensation will not expire.

13:75-4.2 Manner of payments
(a) Payments shall, at the discretion of the Office, be made in either a lump-sum amount or in periodic
payments.
(b) Where periodic payments are authorized, the Office shall verify the dependency, financial status, and/or
disability status of the claimant or victim at least every three months. Upon discovering a change in
circumstances, by marriage, financial status, dependency, disability status, or otherwise, the Office shall adjust
the award and payments, if warranted.
(c) The Office will make its determination regarding the application within 90 days of acknowledgment by the
Office of receipt of the completed application and any and all necessary supplemental information, provided
that this period may be extended for good cause if an administrative closure would otherwise result. After
eligibility has been determined, the Office shall reimburse supplemental claims for verifiably related expenses
submitted within 30 days.

13:75-4.3 Compensation available to secondary victims
(a) Except as provided in N.J.A.C. 13:75-2.4, secondary victims need not be present during the actual
commission of a crime.
(b) A secondary victim cannot be eligible if the direct victim is not eligible.
(c) Any loss for which the Office may reimburse a secondary victim or group of secondary victims shall not
exceed a maximum of $ 7,000.
(d) If, as a direct result of the homicide, the surviving spouse or cohabitant of the decedent was required to
leave their position of employment or secure a position with a lesser salary, loss of earnings may be awarded to
the surviving spouse or cohabitant.
1. Loss of earnings may be paid to members of the victim's family for funeral attendance and/or bereavement
period of no more than two weeks.
2. Loss of earnings may be awarded to the secondary victim where the loss is solely related to the care of the
direct victim during the direct victim's period of disability.
3. The maximum reimbursement for loss of earnings shall not exceed a total of 104 weeks or $ 7,000,
whichever is met first.

13:75-4.4 Medical and counseling fees
(a) Except as permitted by N.J.S.A. 45:14B-6, the Office shall only pay for those medical, mental health,
counseling, or other services provided by a licensed practitioner. The Office will pay out-of-pocket
unreimbursable counseling and therapy expenses for each of the listed categories of providers not to exceed the
following amounts.
1. Psychiatrist................................$ 150.00 per hourly session
2. Unlicensed mental health practitioner practicing in compliance with N.J.S.A. 45:14B-6 (Psy.D., Ph.D.,
Ed.D.)..........$ 110.00 per hourly session
3. State-licensed psychologist.................$ 110.00 per hourly session
4. A.C.S.W.....................................$ 90.00 per hourly session
5. Licensed marriage and family therapist......$ 90.00 per hourly session
6. M.S.W.......................................$ 80.00 per hourly session
7. M.A. (jurisdictions other than New Jersey or in New Jersey practicing in compliance with N.J.S.A. 45:14B6)................$ 80.00 per hourly session
8. Group counseling sessions, involving three or more individuals conducted by any of the credentialed
providers in
(a)1-7 above......................................$ 50.00 per eligible claimant per session
(b) Except for cases determined to be catastrophic in nature, the maximum award for unreimbursed and
unreimbursable counseling expenses shall be $ 20,000, notwithstanding the number of counseling sessions
attended.
(c) A medical, mental health, counseling, or other provider who accepts payment from the Office shall accept
the Office's rate as the maximum allowable payment for that service and shall not seek or accept further

payment from any other source if the total of payments accepted would exceed the maximum rate set by the
Office for that service.

13:75-4.5 Loss of earnings from victim; loss of support from decedent
(a) The Office may order the payment of compensation for a victim or claimant's loss of earning power as a
result of the total or partial incapacity of the victim. Said loss includes work loss or loss of income the injured
person would have performed if he or she had not been injured, and expenses reasonably incurred by him or
her in obtaining services in lieu of those he or she would have performed for income.
1. In computing the earnings loss, the Office may consider any income received from substitute work actually
performed by the victim or claimant, or any income that would have been earned through available appropriate
substitute work he or she was capable of performing but unreasonably failed to undertake, and reduce the
award accordingly.
(b) In computing the amount of any loss of earnings, the Office shall only consider the earnings and/or support
actually contributed to the household at the time of the injury.
(c) In computing the amount of any loss of support in a homicide claim, the Office shall consider the victim's
actual support, or potential wages based on actuarial science.
(d) Where the dependents of a deceased victim have received or are receiving a greater sum of money from
other sources by reason of the victim's death than the sum contributed to their support by the victim at the time
of death, no compensation for loss of support shall be awarded to the dependents. The Office, however,
reserves the right to review its determination should the claimant's dependency, marital, or earnings status be
altered, and to modify its award accordingly.
(e) The maximum reimbursement for loss of earnings shall not exceed a total of 104 weeks, unless a victim has
been rendered permanently disabled as defined by 42 U.S.C. §§ 1381. et seq., in which case loss of earnings
may be awarded for a total period of 260 weeks (five years).
(f) The maximum reimbursement for loss of support in death claims shall not exceed 48 months.
(g) Loss of earnings may be paid to the victim for court attendance. Loss of earnings may also be paid for court
attendance for the victim's immediate family but shall be subject to the limitations applicable to secondary
victims.
(h) The weekly maximum reimbursement for loss of earnings or support shall not exceed $ 600.00.

13:75-4.6 Loss of support from offender
(a) The Office may award compensation for loss of support to any victim or claimant who can establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that, at the time of the incident, a dependency existed upon the income or other
economic contributions of the offender that is no longer available to or accessible by the victim.
1. In computing the loss of support of the victim or claimant/dependent, the Office may only consider the
assailant/offender's earnings and/or the amount of money or economic contributions the offender was actually
contributing to the victim and victim's household at the time of the injury of the victim.
2. Where the dependents have received or are receiving a greater sum of money from other sources by reason
of the incident giving rise to the claim for compensation than the sum contributed to their support by the
assailant/offender at the time of incident, no compensation for loss of support shall be awarded to the
dependents.
3. The Office reserves the right to review its determination should the victim's dependency, marital, or earning
status be altered, and to modify its award accordingly.
(b) Where a dependency upon the assailant/offender has been established, loss of support may be compensated
only:
1. For a period not to exceed 48 months;
2. During a period of incarceration of the offender for a minimum period of at least two weeks;

3. Where the assailant/offender is deceased or remains a fugitive from prosecution and/or his or her
whereabouts remain unknown for a minimum period of at least two weeks;
4. Where the assailant/offender has ceased providing support to the victim, in total or in part, due to the
incident giving rise to the claim for a minimum period of at least two weeks;
5. Where compensation paid to the victim does not result in a substantial unjust enrichment to the
assailant/offender;
6. Where compensation paid to the victim does not relieve the assailant/offender from any monetary obligation
imposed by the court or other legal document, prior to, as a direct result of or subsequent to the incident giving
rise to the claim for compensation, as the assailant/offender's legal duty toward the victim, the victim's family,
or a member of the assailant/offender's family;
7. Where the victim and/or claimant cooperates in the prosecution of the offender, including the filing and
prosecution of a criminal complaint against the offender, unless a compelling health or safety reason is shown
for a failure to so cooperate. Compelling reasons for non-cooperation shall include, but not be limited to,
traumatic stress, fear of retribution, fear of law enforcement, or mental health crises; and
8. Where the victim has been determined to be eligible for compensation under N.J.S.A. 52:4B-1 et seq. and
this chapter.
(c) A victim and/or claimant shall not be eligible to receive compensation for loss of support for more than two
separate incidents involving the same assailant/offender, nor receive more than one such award within a period
of 12 consecutive months.
(d) The victim and/or claimant shall inform the Office whether the assailant/offender continues, or commences
again, to provide support, in total or in part, in any form, to the victim and/or family and whether the
assailant/offender resides with the victim at any time subsequent to the incident giving rise to the claim for
compensation. Failure to provide the Office with said information shall be a basis for denial or cessation of the
payment of compensation and good cause for the Office to seek reimbursement for any award paid in the
claim.
(e) In cases where the offender has failed to meet his or her financial obligation, the Office may in its
discretion, in order to prevent undue hardship, award compensation on behalf of the victim. The Office does,
however, retain the authority to seek reimbursement from the offender for the amount paid.

13:75-4.7 Relocation
(a) The Office may award compensation for expenses incurred as a result of the relocation of a victim and his
or her family, due to the incident forming the basis of the victim's claim where the Office determines there is a
need to protect the health and safety of the victim and/or his or her family and that all other statutory
requirements for eligibility are met. For purposes of this subsection, the term "victim" shall include a witness,
that is, a person who witnessed the commission of any of the offenses listed under section 11 of P.L. 1971, c.
317 (N.J.S.A. 52:4B-11) and who has been threatened as a result.
(b) In determining the need, the Office may take into consideration:
1. The nature of the crime;
2. The amount of danger the offender or others who may be associated with the offender pose to the victim
and/or his or her family;
3. The degree of injury the victim sustained;
4. The criminal case history of the offender and the offender's record while incarcerated;
5. Prior acts of the offender;
6. The efforts the victim and/or his or her family have undertaken in order to protect themselves from further
harm;
7. The offender's sentence and period of incarceration, whether for the crime forming the basis of the claim
filed with the Office or through a plea bargain on related or unrelated charges;
8. The emotional, psychological, and physical impact on the victim and/or his or her family which may result
through a failure to relocate; and
9. Any other relevant factors.

(c) Compensation for moving expenses shall be paid for relocation of victim's family solely where the victim
resided with the family at the time of the incident and, except where the crime resulted in the death of the
victim, the victim relocated to the new premises with the family.
(d) Maximum reimbursement for moving expenses shall be $ 3,000.
1. Related moving expenses may include truck rental, security deposit, temporary shelter, personal expense
items of the claimant that the Office deems to be reasonable and necessary under the circumstances, moving
services, monthly rental and mortgage cost differential, first month's rent, one month's rent if the relocation
occurred within one year of filing of the application, and, subject to any limitations set forth in this chapter, the
cost of no more than five days shelter and lodging in a location other than the residence wherein the crime
scene is located and which has been vacated due to the need to clean the crime scene.
2. In the event a victim is unable to relocate due to home ownership or other personal circumstances, the Office
may apply the $ 3,000 allotted for moving expenses towards the victim's purchase of a security alarm system,
new door locks, or any other reasonable home security device(s), needed for the purpose of protecting the
health and safety of the victim and the victim's family.
(e) A victim or claimant may only seek compensation for moving expenses once for each claim filed with the
Office.
(f) This section shall also apply to situations involving organized gangs where the claimant is requested to
testify on behalf of the State of New Jersey in a criminal prosecution and the claimant is placed in fear for his
or her safety due to terroristic threats or other criminal activity. The facts supporting eligibility for
compensation under this section may be established through certification by a member of the State of New
Jersey Division of Criminal Justice or a county prosecutor's office attesting to same.
(g) Due to the emergent need of relocation funds in many situations, any time consuming documentation proof
requirements may be lessened at the Office's discretion.

13:75-4.8 Transportation costs
(a) Maximum reimbursement for transportation expenses incurred as a direct result of the incident giving rise
to the claim shall not exceed $ 10.00 a day, calculated at the rate of.31 cents per mile up to the daily maximum
allowance.
1. Covered transportation expenses include, but are not be limited to, visits to treating physicians, health care
facilities, and substitute travel costs other than ambulance or ambulatory mobile care services secondary to
securing medically related services incurred due to a criminally induced physical incapacity for which an
eligible claim has been filed with the Office. All non-medically related transportation costs are excluded other
than attendance at any court proceeding related to the crime.
(b) Necessary and reasonable transportation expenses, such as railroad and airfare, which are a direct result of
the incident, incidental to treating and caring for the victim, for attendance at a victim's funeral, or to attend
court proceedings where the alleged offender is being prosecuted for the crime committed, may be reimbursed
to the claimant or to the victim's relatives at a maximum of $ 500.00 per person, up to a total amount of $
3,000.

13:75-4.9 Funeral expenses
In claims involving the death of a victim, the maximum reimbursement for funeral expenses shall be $ 7,500.

13:75-4.10 Attorney fees
(a) The Office may, as part of any order for payment, determine and allow reasonable attorney fees and costs,
which shall not exceed 15 percent of the amount awarded as compensation, to an attorney representing an
applicant in seeking compensation from the Office.
1. The attorney fee award for representation of an applicant in seeking compensation from the Office shall be
paid in addition to the compensation to the claimant and shall not be included in calculating the maximum
benefit available to a claimant.
2. Any attorney fee award made pursuant to (b) below shall not be included in calculating the attorney fee
payable under this section.
3. An attorney fee award for representing a claimant or victim in an appeal or his or her application for
compensation from the Office shall not be less than $ 500.00, unless the Office determines that the attorney
has not acted diligently or in good faith representing the claimant or victim.
4. If the Office enters an order denying compensation, it may nevertheless allow an award of attorney's fees of
$ 500.00, if the Office determines that the attorney acted diligently and in good faith in representing the
claimant or victim.
(b) The Office may allow payment of an attorney fee, including costs, up to a maximum of $ 10,000, to an
attorney who provides legal assistance to a victim in any legal matter, other than a decision of the Office,
arising from, or related to, having been the victim of the offense that forms the basis of the victim's or
claimant's application for compensation.
1. Payment pursuant to this subsection shall be subject to the limitation on compensation set forth at section 18
of P.L. 1971, c. 317 (N.J.S.A. 52:4B-18).
(c) Attorney fee awards made pursuant to (a) or (b) above shall be paid at an hourly rate of $ 275.00.
1. Every application for an award of attorney fees shall be accompanied by an affidavit of service from the
attorney, which shall include a detailed hourly accounting of work completed by the attorney.
2. Where an attorney is seeking a fee award pursuant to both (a) and (b) above, separate affidavits of service
shall be filed specifically identifying the work performed for each category for which payment is sought.
(d) All records of public agencies that are necessary to the investigation of a claim shall, whenever possible, be
obtained by the Office. Therefore, no payment shall be made to an attorney for obtaining such reports unless
the Office had made a specific request of the claimant and/or of his or her attorney for such reports.

13:75-4.11 Domestic help, child care, day care, and home health care
services
(a) The reimbursement for expenses arising out of providing child care and/or day care for a minor child or for
an adult who may or may not be the victims of the crime alleged in the claimant's application, but who,
nevertheless, is in need of such services and/or assistance as a direct result of the crime giving rise to the
application, shall be set by the Office.
1. The Office shall make a case-by-case determination as to a reasonable period of time for the provision of
child care and/or day care services. Such determinations shall be based on a totality of the circumstances.
2. Except for cases determined to be catastrophic in nature, reimbursement for child care and/or day care
services shall not exceed $ 6,500 in the aggregate.
3. Day care expenses for dependent children shall be reimbursed solely for those children who are 14 years old
or less.
(b) The reimbursement for expenses arising out of hiring domestic help as a direct result of the crime giving
rise to the application shall be set by the Office.
1. The Office shall make a determination in each case as to a reasonable period of time for the employment of
domestic help. Such determinations shall be based on a totality of the circumstances.

2. Except for cases determined to be catastrophic in nature, the total amount of reimbursement for domestic
help shall not exceed $ 6,500 in the aggregate.
(c) Where domestic help and/or child care or day care services are provided by a family member and/or private
individual, out-of-pocket expenses shall be verified through canceled checks, paid receipts, and other
appropriate evidence.
(d) Verification shall be provided by the claimant or victim that child care or day care services are related to
the crime that formed the basis for the application and/or the recovery period in question.
(e) Home and institutional care services provided by licensed professionals involving both domestic assistance
and advanced medical care and treatment are not covered by any award limits set forth in this section.

13:75-4.12 Crime scene clean-up
(a) The Office shall award compensation for the reasonable and necessary costs for cleaning a crime scene
where criminally injurious conduct occurred, which costs have become the financial responsibility of the
victim or claimant, and which are not reimbursed or reimbursable from any other source. For purposes of this
section only a "claimant" includes a Good Samaritan who assists a victim during the immediate aftermath of
the crime.
(b) Cleaning a crime scene means to remove, or attempt to remove, blood, dirt, stains, or debris from the crime
scene by hauling and/or dumping, as a result of the crime or the processing of the crime scene. The reasonable
out-of-pocket costs of cleaning supplies, equipment rental, and labor to clean the crime scene are also included.
(c) Compensation for crime scene clean-up shall be awarded for the victim's or claimant's personal residence
and/or personal vehicle, leased or otherwise, where the criminal conduct and its resulting damage occurred.
Places of employment or public access are excluded unless the victim or claimant has become financially
responsible for the clean-up costs.
(d) Compensation awarded for crime scene clean-up costs shall not include replacement and/or repair expenses
for personal property, other than as follows:
1. The Office may award compensation for the reasonable replacement value of bedding and clothing;
2. The Office may award compensation for the reasonable replacement value of furniture that has been
rendered damaged or useless as result of the crime or the collection of evidence for purposes of investigating
the crime; and
3. The Office may award compensation for the reasonable replacement value of carpeting, doors, windows,
and locks.
(e) Compensation for crime scene clean-up shall be awarded solely through an eligible claim for compensation
filed with the Office by, or on behalf of, a direct victim of a crime who has suffered an injury or death. Claims
seeking only reimbursement for crime scene clean-up shall not be eligible for an award of compensation, but
may be merged with and compensated through a crime-related eligible claim.
(f) An award of compensation for crime scene clean-up shall not exceed $ 4,000 in the aggregate.

13:75-4.13 Service animals
(a) Where a criminal act has caused injury or death to a service animal trained and certified for the specific
purpose of assisting an individual who is disabled or who requires the service of such an animal to perform
day-to-day routine functions, the injured animal's crime-related medical treatment and replacement cost are
compensable up to a maximum of $ 5,000.
(b) Funeral expenses for a service animal shall not be compensated by the Office.
(c) Counseling to the service animal's owner shall be limited to a maximum of 15 sessions.

13:75-5.1 Financial hardship
(a) The Office may grant an emergency award where such grants could help prevent financial hardship or
stress that might not otherwise arise, forcing persons, among other things, to go on public assistance or be
evicted from their homes because of inability to make rent or other payments while at the same time paying
medical expenses, or where a person cannot maintain a reasonable level of health, safety, and education for
him- or herself or his or her dependents.
1. In the case of death claims, emergency payments may be made on behalf of the claimant directly to the
provider of funeral services where undue hardship as determined by the Office can be shown and eligibility of
the claim proven.
(b) The claimant has the burden of showing the need for such emergency awards by the preponderance of the
credible evidence. The Office shall make its determination based on a totality of the circumstances and in
consideration of all relevant information made available.
(c) The maximum amount of any emergency award shall not exceed $ 7,500.
(d) Any emergency awards made to a claimant shall be deducted from the final amount of compensation
awarded, except in de minimis emergency awards, which shall not exceed $ 1,000. De minimis awards may be
awarded for transportation, food, shelter, and any other exigent circumstances.
(e) Where the final amount is less than the sum of the emergency awards provided, or where the Office
determines that an applicant shall receive no compensation, the Office may require that the claimant return an
amount of money equal to the difference or repay the full amount of the award.

13:75-5.2 Stolen funds
(a) The Office may make an emergency award in an amount not to exceed $ 1,000 for compensation for funds
stolen directly from the person of the victim, whether or not the victim suffered any personal injury, except in
the case of a burglary, wherein no such award shall be made.
(b) Eligibility for an emergency award under the section is limited to those meeting the following conditions:
1. The victim is over 60 years of age or disabled as defined pursuant to the Federal Social Security Act, 42
U.S.C. § 416.(i);
2. The victim's income in excess of Social Security benefits does not exceed the limits adopted by the
Department of Human Services as the standard of need for the General Assistance program;
3. The victim has filed a police report indicating the amount of money stolen;
4. The victim has cooperated with investigative and prosecutorial authorities;
5. The victim has identified the source of the funds stolen;
6. The Office is satisfied that there are no other sources available to provide the victim with funds necessary to
cover immediate costs of essential shelter, food, or medical expenses; and
7. The victim is the innocent victim of any one offense enumerated in N.J.S.A. 52:4B-11, except burglary.
(c) A victim shall not receive an emergency award pursuant to this section for more than two separate incidents
of crime victimization, nor receive more than one such award within a period of 36 consecutive months.
(d) Any such emergency award made shall be included in the final amount of compensation within the
statutory maximum as set forth in this chapter.

13:75-5.3 De minimis award
In addition to ordering the payment of compensation for personal injury or death that resulted from the
incidents specified at N.J.S.A. 52:4B-11, the Office may order the payment of ancillary expenses in connection

with those incidents to compensate certain victims, whether or not those victims suffered personal injury, as
specified at N.J.A.C. 13:75-5.2(b), in an amount not to exceed $ 1,000.

13:75-6.1 General provisions
(a) A catastrophically injured crime victim is a person who has sustained a severe long-term or life-long
personal injury as a direct result of the offense that formed the basis of the application for compensation.
(b) The Office may make one or more supplemental awards for the purpose of providing rehabilitative
assistance and services to catastrophically injured crime victims determined eligible for compensation within
provisions set by this section, notwithstanding the fact that said payments may, in the aggregate, exceed the
statutory maximum award as provided in this chapter. There is no time limit to file a catastrophic application.
(c) Compensation under this section may be awarded in lump sum or periodic payments; however, any
compensation awarded shall not exceed the actual cost of the rehabilitative services allowed in this section.
(d) Compensation under this section shall be awarded solely for rehabilitative services, which are those
services restorative in nature commensurate with the medical needs of the victim and prescribed by a licensed
provider to correct or substantially modify a crime-related physical or mental condition that has resulted in a
significant impediment to the victim's ability to interact with others and carry on his or her normal life
functions.
1. The rehabilitative service must be reasonably expected to eliminate or reduce such impediment and to
promote or facilitate the accomplishment of long-term rehabilitation goals and intermediate rehabilitation
objectives.
2. Expenses incurred in an emergency room or medical facility where remedial, acute, and recuperative care is
required immediately or shortly after the crime victimization forming the basis of a claim for compensation,
unless shown to be a rehabilitative service as defined in this section, are excluded from supplemental
catastrophic compensation even though the victim may have been determined to be a catastrophically injured
crime victim.
(e) The burden of proof is upon the victim and/or claimant to establish, by a preponderance of the credible
evidence, eligibility for compensation as a catastrophically injured crime victim.
1. Speculation and conjecture as to a potential increase in disability, mere loss of earnings, cumulative injuries
minor in nature, and, among other things, subjective statements of the victim without a demonstration of
catastrophic injury by way of objective medical evidence and professional medical analysis is not sufficient to
meet the burden of proof.
(f) The Office may order the examination of an injured victim and a report, thereon, from an impartial medical
expert, if necessary, prior to a determination of eligibility under this section and periodically, as it deems
appropriate, for the continued award of compensation to a catastrophically injured crime victim.

13:75-6.2 Eligibility determinations
(a) Eligibility for supplemental compensation for catastrophic injuries shall be based on the totality of the
circumstances and in consideration of each of the following factors:
1. Whether the victim has suffered a significant and sustained reduction in his or her mental and physical
functioning such that his or her ability to interact with others and carry on the normal functions of life has been
dramatically altered;
2. Whether the victim's ability to work has been diminished to a material degree;
3. Whether the victim has been diagnosed with a physical or neuro-physical impairment and no fundamental or
marked improvement in his or her crime-related condition can be reasonably expected;
4. The severity and debilitating nature of the personal injury including, but not limited to, conditions such as
quadriplegia, paraplegia, loss of sight in both eyes, loss of hearing in both ears, or amputation of a major
portion of an extremity;

5. Whether the injury has been diagnosed as permanent or long-term; and
6. Whether an extreme medical risk exists that has substantially increased functional impairment or risk of
death if the medical services are not provided expeditiously.
(b) Where a victim is has been determined permanently disabled and is receiving benefits pursuant to 42
U.S.C. §§ 1381 et seq., as a result of a crime that forms the basis for the application for compensation, there
shall be a presumption that the victim is a catastrophically injured crime victim.
1. Proof of eligibility under this section requires that the victim submit a copy of the permanent disability
determination issued by the Social Security Administration and supportive medical documentation.
(c) Secondary victims as defined by this chapter are not eligible for supplemental catastrophic crime victim
compensation.

13:75-6.3 Compensation benefits
(a) Subject to the individual monetary caps established by the Office in this chapter, compensation awarded to
catastrophically injured crime victims shall not exceed a supplemental amount of $ 35,000 in out-of-pocket
aggregate expenses.
1. The award of compensation for catastrophic injury related services shall be entered by the Office in addition
to any award of compensation for which a crime victim may be found eligible if the victim had filed an
application for non-catastrophic crime related injuries.
(b) The benefits and services listed in this section shall be compensated solely for the benefit of
catastrophically injured crime victims.
(c) Compensation may be awarded to catastrophically injured crime victims where it is determined that the
rehabilitative services are reasonable and medically necessary as evidenced by written prescription for the
service issued by a licensed provider of medical services.
(d) Compensation for loss of earnings, loss of support, property damage, living expenses such as food, shelter,
and clothing necessitated by the victim's medical condition, expenses incurred for vocational training services
and continuing education in educational institutions, and pain and suffering are excluded.
(e) Services for which compensation may be awarded include, but are not limited to, the following:
1. Surgical and therapeutic procedures;
2. Rehabilitative physical and occupational therapy designed to restore an optimum function level, including
chiropractic services;
3. Prescription and over-the-counter drugs and medical supplies that are physician-authorized and Federal
Drug Administration-approved for injury or incapacity related to the crime that formed the basis for the
victim's application for compensation;
4. Cognitive and psychological therapy;
5. Home health assistance;
6. Vehicle modifications upon submission of a medical prescription or other medical proof indicating the need
for such modifications.
i. Reimbursement or compensation for the purchase or lease of a vehicle, insurance payments, and replacement
and repair of parts, service, and maintenance of the vehicle and modification are excluded.
ii. Compensation for vehicle modification shall be limited to the one vehicle that serves as the victim's
principle conveyance.
iii. The victim and/or claimant shall maintain motor vehicle insurance including, but not limited to, collision
insurance in an amount that is sufficient to cover the cost of replacement or repair of the vehicle modification
features for which the Office has previously awarded compensation;
7. Driver training;
8. Wheelchair, braces, splints, crutches, walkers, shower, commode chair, and any other personal adaptive
equipment required to meet individual disability needs;
9. Structural modifications to living environment solely to the victim's proven principle place of residence,
designed to provide accessibility and to maximize independence.

i. Modifications to vacation and secondary homes are excluded unless the victim/claimant can show that the
vacation or secondary home has become the claimant's principal place of residence, that ownership of the
original primary residence, the modification of which the Office had previously awarded compensation under
this section has been sold to a party other than a member of the victim/claimant's family, and that the original
primary residence is no longer available for the use of the victim/claimant or his or her family.
ii. Structural modifications to the physical plant and/or equipment owned by an employer are excluded.
iii. The vendor and the victim/claimant are responsible for all permits, licenses, insurance, and inspections as
required by Federal, State, and/or municipal statutes and codes for the premises to be modified.
iv. The maximum compensation for a structure where modifications are made to a building not owned by a
victim shall not exceed $ 15,000;
10. Subject to medical prescription, as needed dependent care and domestic help as set forth in this chapter;
11. Speech therapy;
12. Subject to the review and approval of the Office, experimental medical treatment/experimental drugs that
have been recognized by Federal or State agencies and provided by licensed health care providers; and
13. Upon a showing that the service provided is a rehabilitative service as defined in this section,
telecommunications, sensory, and other technological aids and devices and interpreter services.
(f) Every claimant seeking compensation for catastrophic injury is required to produce verification for and
provide evidence of all out-of-pocket expenses and injuries claimed as compensable items and the Office shall
consider only those expenses and injuries for which such verification and evidence has been produced.
Verification must be provided that the services for which compensation is sought are related to the date of the
incident and/or the recovery period in question.
1. The victim or claimant may seek prior approval from the Office for the services for which he or she intends
to seek compensation.
2. The Office's prior approval and/or payment of the expense incurred shall not be considered as a warranty of
the services provided or fitness for use of any of the products and materials provided or improvements made,
the workmanship performed, or the capability and license of the provider to perform said service.
3. Although prior approval for a particular service may have been granted, compensation shall only be awarded
upon notice from the claimant that the service for which compensation is sought has been completed.
(g) The Office shall annually set aside an amount of funds it determines to be reasonable for the purposes of
compensation of catastrophic claims out of the funds appropriated for the administration of the Criminal
Injuries Compensation Act of 1971, N.J.S.A. 52:4B-1 et seq., and subject to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 52:4B9. Additional funds may be set aside, as the Office determines reasonable and necessary.

13:75-7.1 Request for hearings
(a) After investigation of a claim has been completed, the victim/claimant shall be informed of the Office's
decision in the matter and of his or her right to request a hearing before the Review Board by giving written or
electronic notice to the Office within 45 days of receipt of the decision.
(b) If the victim/claimant fails to file a written or electronic notice within 45 days, and cannot demonstrate
good cause for failure to do so, the appeal may be dismissed by the Review Board with prejudice.
(c) In any case where the victim is a minor or otherwise incompetent, appeals may be prosecuted on his or her
behalf by the same persons authorized to file claims under N.J.A.C. 13:75-3.1(c) and (d).
(d) Claimants may appeal any claim denied because the Office deemed the claim ineligible or, except as
provided in (e) below, any denial of compensation in a claim otherwise deemed eligible.
(e) Claimants may not appeal any claim involving a decision by the Office to deny catastrophic injury benefits,
or a decision involving compensation in a case where the Office has compromised with service providers.
(f) The Review Board, at its discretion, may decide an appeal on the papers submitted and not hold a formal
hearing.

13:75-7.2 Conduct of hearings
(a) When a hearing is ordered, the claimant, his or her attorney, and all material and necessary parties, shall be
notified in writing, of the time, place, and purpose of any such hearing, not less than 15 days before the date of
hearing.
(b) Hearings shall be held at a time and place designated by the Review Board. The entire Review Board, or
any member thereof, may conduct the hearing.
(c) The victim/claimant has the right to be present at the hearing, but may be excused at his or her request. The
victim/claimant has the right to appear at the hearing virtually.
(d) The victim/claimant shall be allowed to present testimony or cross-examine witnesses personally or by
counsel.
(e) Any person having a substantial interest in a proceeding may appear, produce evidence, and cross-examine
witnesses personally or by counsel.
(f) All hearings shall be conducted in an orderly manner so as to ascertain the rights of all parties.
(g) All witnesses shall testify under oath and a record of the proceedings shall be made. Any Review Board
member may administer oaths and/or affirmations and may question the claimant and witnesses.
(h) The parties or their representatives shall be allowed a reasonable time for presentation of oral argument or
for the filing of briefs or other statements as to the facts and questions of law.
(i) The victim/claimant shall have the burden of proof, which shall be established by a preponderance of the
credible evidence.
(j) The Review Board shall not be bound by common law or statutory rules of evidence or by any technical or
formal rules of procedure other than as provided for in this chapter. Any statement, document, or information
necessary to afford the parties a fair hearing may be received as evidence, including hospital records or reports
and physician's reports as proof of the injuries sustained, without requiring the presence of the attending
physician at the hearing.
(k) The Review Board may require a medical examination of the victim/claimant by a physician selected from
a panel of impartial medical experts. The victim/claimant shall present him- or herself to the physician selected
at the time and place designated. A written report of such examination shall be filed with the Review Board by
the examining physician and a copy mailed by the Review Board to the victim/claimant or attorney. The
examination fee shall be paid by the Office.
(l) Hearings shall be open to the public, except that the Review Board may, in its discretion, hold private
hearings in accordance with applicable legal requirements in the following circumstances:
1. Where prosecution against the alleged perpetrator of the crime is pending and/or the Board determines that
there is a continuing or ongoing investigation of the crime;
2. In an alleged sexual offense where the welfare and interest of the victim or dependents may be adversely
affected;
3. In the interest of public morality;
4. Where prosecution has resulted in an acquittal or a dismissal on technical grounds;
5. Where the Review Board determines that, in the event of a public hearing, one or more of the parties will be
subjected to public ridicule or personal mental anguish or embarrassment; and
6. In any instance where the Review Board determines, based on the totality of the circumstances, it is in the
best interests of the victim/claimant that the hearing not be open to the public; this determination shall take into
account the safety of the victim.
(m) Upon application of the victim/claimant or attorney, submitted in affidavit or motion form, a case may be
reopened for further investigation, and, if the Review Board finds it necessary, for further testimony. In
determining whether to reopen a case, the Review Board will consider the following factors, whether:
1. The information submitted in support of the request to reopen was available at the time of the original
appeal; and
2. The victim/claimant should reasonably have been aware of this information at the time of the original
appeal.

(n) Approval of a motion to reopen proceedings shall not be deemed a matter of right but rather a matter within
the Review Board's discretion. The Review Board may, on its own motion, reopen or reinvestigate cases at any
times it deems necessary.

13:75-7.3 Subpoenas
(a) The Review Board shall issue subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum, either at its own instance or upon
written application of any party, made not less than 10 days prior to the hearing. The 10-day provision may be
waived at the discretion of the Review Board.
(b) The victim/claimant may file an application for the issuance of a subpoena and the Board may issue the
same upon a showing of necessity that the evidence sought constitutes an element of the claim. A claimant's
application for subpoena shall be in writing, designating the names and addresses of witnesses, and/or a
description of the documents, books, records, correspondence, papers, or any other evidence sought to be
produced along with the location of those documents, books, records, correspondence, papers, or any other
records necessary to the claim being heard.
(c) Where a subpoena is issued, service and witness mileage fees shall be paid by the Office. The mileage fee
shall be the prevailing rate on the date of the appearance as established by the Department of the Treasury.
(d) The Review Board, at its own instance or on application in writing of the victim/claimant, shall take or
cause to be taken affidavits or depositions of witnesses residing within or without the State, whenever, in its
sole discretion, it deems such procedures necessary. The Review Board may set appropriate terms and
conditions pertaining to the taking of affidavits or depositions. The requesting party shall bear the expense,
however, where the Review Board enters an Order of Payment, the Office may consider said expense as a
reasonable expense incurred for reimbursement purposes.

13:75-7.4 Decisions by the Review Board
(a) In order to be eligible for review by the Review Board, all evidence must have been filed with the Review
Board. If the procedure listed in this subchapter is not followed, the Review Board may, in its discretion, delay
its decision or a previously scheduled hearing until such time as the evidence to be considered by the Review
Board is properly filed. All evidence must be filed at least 10 days prior to the scheduled hearing.
(b) The Review Board shall render its decision within three months of receipt of all information necessary to
render a final decision in the matter.

13:75-7.5 Judicial review
Appeals from the Review Board shall be taken directly to the Appellate Division of the Superior Court
pursuant to the rules set forth by the Supreme Court of the State of New Jersey.

13:75-8.1 Human trafficking
(a) In addition to the compensation award services set forth in this chapter for crime victims, the Office shall
award additional compensation awards for human trafficking victims, as defined at N.J.S.A. 2C:13-8, for
particular expenses incurred as a result of their victimization. Such expenses include, but are not limited to,
expenses incurred for:

1. Record expungement;
2. Name change;
3. Social Security number change; or
4. Out-of-State relocation.

13:75-9.1 Moneys received from other sources
(a) In determining the amount of compensation to be awarded, the Office shall take into consideration amounts
received or receivable from other sources by the victim, claimant, and/or his or her dependents as a result of
the offense or occurrence giving rise to the application.
(b) Other sources, as used in this section, means any source of benefits or advantages that the claimant has
received in lieu of economic loss or that is readily available to the claimant from, including, but not limited to:
1. The offender;
2. The government of the United States or any agency thereof, the State or any of its political subdivisions, or
an instrumentality of two or more states;
3. Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid;
4. State-required temporary non-occupational disability insurance;
5. Workers' Compensation;
6. Wage continuation programs of any employer;
7. Proceeds of a contract of insurance payable to the victim or claimant for any loss sustained because of the
criminally injurious conduct; except that life insurance payments and private donations received by the
dependents of the victim shall not be considered as other sources;
8. A contract providing prepaid hospital and other health care services or benefits for disability;
9. The net amount received by the victim or claimant in excess of $ 1,000 in any civil suit for damages;
10. All proceeds or recovery to any victim or claimant from any collateral action or claim based upon or
arising out of the circumstances giving rise to victim/claimant's application for compensation; or
11. Restitution ordered to be paid directly to any victim or claimant as a result of the crime that formed the
basis for the application for compensation.
(c) If any victim or claimant receives monies from any other source, he or she shall be required to repay the
Office for any compensation previously awarded and shall contact the Office immediately upon receipt of any
such monies from other sources.
1. If the victim or claimant receives monies from any other sources, the Office shall seek recovery only as to
the net proceeds that are in excess of $ 1,000.

13:75-9.2 Restitution
(a) If any victim or claimant is awarded restitution by a court in any criminal proceedings related to the crime
that formed the basis of the application for compensation, the Office shall have the right to seek transfer of the
restitution awarded to any victim or claimant from the Division of Parole, any county probation department,
the Juvenile Justice Commission, and/or the Department of Corrections, up to the amount awarded as
compensation.
1. Every victim and/or claimant seeking compensation from the Office shall provide written authorization
permitting the Office to request the transfer of any court-ordered restitution payable to the victim and/or
claimant to the Office, up to the amount awarded as compensation.
i. If the Office seeks the transfer of any court-ordered restitution payable to the victim and/or claimant, the
Office shall provide written notice of such request to the court, the victim, claimant, and/or his or her
representative, and the department, office, or agency responsible for collecting the court-ordered restitution
from the offender.

(b) The Office shall notify the court immediately upon processing an application for compensation to advise
the court of the Office's right to an award of restitution from an offender in accordance with N.J.S.A. 2C:442c(2).
1. If it is determined that an offender has already been sentenced by the court, the Office may, in its discretion,
seek to re-open the judgment in order to obtain an order for restitution in the amount awarded as compensation.

13:75-9.3 Subrogation/civil action recovery
(a) If any victim or claimant institutes any civil law suit or other action as a result of the incident giving rise to
his or her application for compensation, the Office shall be given written notification of any such action. After
receiving notice of a civil or other collateral action, the Office may, in its discretion:
1. Join in the action as a party plaintiff to recover the compensation it has awarded;
2. Reserve its rights until such time as the action has been completed; or
3. Upon resolution adopted by the Review Board, waive its rights under this section.
(b) The Office shall be entitled to be directly reimbursed for two-thirds of the amount awarded as
compensation to the victim or claimant from the proceeds of any judgment or settlement of any civil or other
collateral action.
(c) If a victim or claimant brings a civil or other collateral action and recovers monies that the Office seeks as
reimbursement for compensation awarded to the victim/claimant, the victim/claimant may deduct a pro rata
share of the victim/claimant's attorney fees from compensation recovered.
(d) If the Office, at its own discretion, commences an action against the person or persons responsible for the
victim's injuries to recover monies compensated to a victim or claimant, the victim/claimant shall cooperate
fully with the Office in pursuit of its action including, but not limited to, joining as a party to said action.
(e) The Office may consider proceeds from a judgment, verdict, settlement, adjudication, any other resolution
to a civil or collateral action, or other claim that purports to indicate, define, or specify that the proceeds,
damages, or any other legal or economic loss classification or remedy, represents an item of loss not
compensated by the Office, such as pain and suffering and property damage, as proceeds in defining money
received from other sources.

