N.J. Admin. Code § 3A:71-3.1 - Requirements for participation in the ACP | State Regulations | US Law | LII / Legal Information Institute Please help us improve our site! × No thank you N.J. Admin. Code § 3A:71-3.1 - Requirements for participation in the ACP State Regulations Compare (a) Each applicant
				filing for participation in the ACP must be 18 years of age or over, an
				emancipated minor, a parent or guardian acting on behalf of a minor, or a
				guardian acting on behalf of an incapacitated person. (b) Each applicant shall complete an
				application, which may be obtained from a local domestic violence program,
				sexual violence agency, or other agencies, as designated by the Division on
				Women. Information about how to contact the aforementioned programs can be
				obtained by contacting the New Jersey Address Confidentiality Program at
				1-877-218-9133. 1. The application form shall
				require the provision of the following: i. The
				applicant's name; ii. The names and
				ages of minor children who will participate in the program; iii. A sworn statement that any act or acts
				of domestic violence, stalking, or sexual abuse that form the underlying basis
				for the applicant's ACP eligibility has been reported to a law enforcement
				agency and/or court or that the applicant has applied for an order pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2C:14-13 et seq.; iv. The application assistant's name
				(printed), signature and agency; v. A sworn statement that the applicant fears further violent acts and that the
				applicant has relocated or will be relocating to a location that is not known
				in the public record; vi. The
				applicant's new residential address, mailing address (if different from the
				residential address), work address, and/or school address and telephone numbers
				for which confidentiality is being requested; vii. The name(s), address(es), and telephone
				number(s) of a contact person(s) through whom the ACP may reach, or with whom
				the program manager may leave a message for, the applicant; viii. The applicant's designation of the
				Director as the applicant's agent for service of process and for receipt of
				mail; ix. The applicant's birth
				date; x. The applicant's signature;
				and xi. The application
				date. 2. An application
				shall be deemed filed on the day that it is received by the program
				manager. Notes N.J. Admin.
				  Code § 3A:71-3.1 Amended by R.2004
				  d.430, effective 11/15/2004 . See: 36 N.J.R. 3334(b), 36 N.J.R. 5094(a). Rewrote
				  (b). Amended by 56
				  N.J.R. 1019(a) , effective 6/3/2024 State regulations are updated quarterly; we currently have two versions available.
                        Below is a comparison between our most recent version and the prior quarterly release. More comparison features will be added as we have more versions to compare. No prior version found. State Regulations Toolbox