Frequently Asked Questions Skip to main content Unsupported Browser Detected The web Browser you are currently using is unsupported, and some features of this site may not work as intended. Please update to a modern browser such as Chrome, Firefox or Edge to experience all features Michigan.gov has to offer. Supported Browsers Google Chrome Safari Microsoft Edge Firefox Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions about Michigan's Crime Victim Compensation Program What is Crime Victim Compensation? This program may help pay out-of-pocket medical expenses, lost earnings, funeral bills, counseling, or other expenses for people who have been harmed as the direct result of a crime. If you or someone you know is a victim of crime, certain expenses may qualify for Crime Victim Compensation coverage. Please note that Crime Victim Compensation is the payer of last resort. This means that your private insurance or other public funds, if available, must be utilized first in order for you to be eligible for compensation. Can I get help? Yes! If you are: A person who was physically, emotionally, psychologically, or mentally injured as the direct result of a crime in Michigan. A sexual assault victim. A person who was injured while trying to help a crime victim. An * eligible person with out-of-pocket expenses as the direct result of a crime. A Michigan resident injured in another state that doesn’t pay compensation for a nonresident. * Click here to learn more about eligibility requirements. What costs may be covered? Available benefits include: Medical & dental expenses Loss of wages Counseling for the injured person & family members Nontraditional counseling and non-medical remedial treatment Residential security expenses Transportation Accessibility & rehabilitative equipment Replacement services needed because of the person’s injury Temporary or permanent relocation Funeral and burial expenses Crime scene cleanup Loss of support for dependents of the person who died Grief counseling for family members Bereavement for lost wages Replacement costs Other necessary services Click here to learn more about what costs may be covered. What costs are NOT covered? Costs that are NOT covered under Crime Victim Compensation include: Fraud or financial crimes Pain and suffering Costs of participating in a trial Expenses paid by other sources (public or private health insurance, life insurance, disability insurance, workers compensation, auto insurance, etc.) Click here to learn more about what costs may be covered. Can I get help with my application? Yes! If you need help completing your application, contact your local county prosecutor . They can connect you with a victim advocate who can help with applying for compensation and navigating the criminal court process. To find your county prosecutor and their contact information, click here . If you have questions about the Crime Victim Compensation program or the application process, you can also call the victim-only toll-free helpline (877-251-7373) or email us at MDHHS-MichiganCrimeVictim@Michigan.gov . Do I need to be a U.S. citizen or have a Social Security Number in order to qualify? No. You do not have to be a legal resident of the United States (or a resident of Michigan) in order to qualify for Crime Victim Compensation. If you do not have a Social Security Number, please indicate that on your application in Section 1 in the “Social Security Number” field. Do I qualify if I have insurance? Yes, you may still qualify for Crime Victim Compensation if you have insurance. We can cover copays and deductibles. Do I have to pay for my own sexual assault evidence kit? No. A provider cannot bill a patient for their sexual assault evidence kit. If a victim receives a bill for their sexual assault evidence kit, they should contact our SAFE Response Coordinator at 517-335-SAFE. Who do I contact for questions about the criminal court case and restitution? The victim advocate at your local prosecutor’s office can connect you with the correct person to help. To find your county prosecutor and their contact information, click here . Do I have to wait for a court case to be completed before I can apply for benefits? No. You may apply for Crime Victim Compensation as soon as a crime occurs. Do I qualify if I’m a member of a Tribe or resident of another state? If you are a Tribal member or a resident of another state and are mentally, emotionally, physically, or psychologically injured in the State of Michigan as the result of a crime, you should apply to Michigan’s Crime Victim Compensation program. What if the crime occurred on Tribal land or another state? If the crime occurs on Tribal land in Michigan, you may be eligible for Michigan’s Crime Victim Compensation program. However, if the crime occurs in another state, then you must apply for that state’s Crime Victim Compensation program. For a directory of all Crime Victim Compensation programs in states throughout the United States, click here . Questions? Contact Us! If you have questions about the Crime Victim Compensation program or the application process, call or email the Crime Victim Compensation program for assistance. If you need help completing your application, contact your local county prosecutor . You can search for your local prosecutor by clicking here . 877-251-7373 Victims-Only Toll-Free Line 517-241-7373 Office Line MDHHS-MichiganCrimeVictim@Michigan.gov Email Follow us