Attorney General: ACP Applicants Skip to main content Unsupported Browser Detected The web Browser you are currently using is unsupported, and some features of this site may not work as intended. Please update to a modern browser such as Chrome, Firefox or Edge to experience all features Michigan.gov has to offer. Supported Browsers Google Chrome Safari Microsoft Edge Firefox ACP Applicants ACP Applicants Address Confidentiality Program Logo The Program (ACP) was created to conceal the addresses of victims of stalking, domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, and of individuals at risk of being threatened or physically harmed from being located by their perpetrators through public records. ACP provides victims with a designated (substitute) address that can be used instead of their real address. The designated address can be used by governmental entities, employers, schools, or institutions of higher education, whenever an address is required by public agencies. Private companies are not required by law to use the designated (substitute) address; however, program participants can request they use it. ACP provides a free mail forwarding service.  All first-class, certified, and registered mail sent to the designated (substitute) address will be processed and forwarded to the participant’s real/confidential address.  This service does not forward 3rd class mail or packages. Do not file a change of address with the post office; doing so will make the address public. Who can enroll in ACP? An individual 18 years of age or older, an emancipated minor, a parent or guardian acting on behalf of a minor or a ward (incapacitated person) must be: A victim of domestic violence, stalking, sexual assault, human trafficking, or an individual at risk of being threatened or physically harmed. Planning to move. Not listed in the Sex Offender Registry. ACP Enrollment Black woman using a laptop computer How to Enroll in the ACP The Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) has adopted MILogin, the State of Michigan’s single sign on application for online access to many state services. If you don’t have a MILogin account, you will need to create one from the MILogin page. The ACP recommends creating a new email and a new MILogin account to help protect your information and reduce the risk of others accessing your account. If you experience issues accessing MILogin we ask that you try following these directions before reaching out to the DTMB Client Service Center for assistance. We recommend using the following browsers: Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, or Mozilla Firefox. If you are still unable to access ACP, our contact center is available at 800-968-2644 or 517-241-9700 from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding holidays. Review the ACP MiLogin Instructions (PDF) ACP Applicants Find a Certified Application Assistant or Victim Advocate Near You If a victim advocate is not currently available in your area, the Department of Attorney General can help register you and/or your family. Please contact 313-456-0190 and ask for an Address Confidentially Advocate. Apply to ACP Privacy Statement online application form completion ACP Application Instructions Completed application and notarized statement can be submitted by mail or email to the ACP (see the application for details). This application must be completed with the assistant of an Application Assistant or Victim Advocate. Please review the instructions and complete all required fields before submitting the application to the ACP. Please print clearly or type all information in this application. View the Complete ACP Application Instructions Now (PDF) dummy link Forms Choose an option ACP Application Instructions ACP Application (PDF) MiLogin Instructions (PDF) Notarized Statement (PDF) ACP Privacy Statement View Questions Contact the ACP Program by email or at 313-456-0190. Contact ACP ESCAPE Follow us