Applying for Compensation Skip to main content Unsupported Browser Detected The web Browser you are currently using is unsupported, and some features of this site may not work as intended. Please update to a modern browser such as Chrome, Firefox or Edge to experience all features Michigan.gov has to offer. Supported Browsers Google Chrome Safari Microsoft Edge Firefox Applying for Compensation Applying for Compensation Applying for Compensation Person working on laptop The documents you’ll need to submit along with your application depends on the type(s) of benefits you are requesting. In general, you’ll need to provide your Social Security number (if you have one) and date of birth. You’ll also need to submit a copy of the police report, if you have it. Your advocate can help you navigate this process and gather the necessary paperwork you need to apply. If you’re not sure who your victim advocate is, contact your local county prosecutor by clicking here . We have provided an application checklist to help you gather the correct paperwork before you apply. You can view, download, and print this checklist by clicking here . Download Your Application Application (English) Application (Spanish) Application (Arabic) Process of a Claim
                                                                Video Process of a Claim Learn more about the Crime Victim Compensation claim process. Watch on YouTube How do I apply? Applications should be submitted electronically, when possible, and via email. Email completed applications to MDHHS-MichiganCrimeVictim@Michigan.gov or fax them to 517-335-2439. Applications can still be submitted via mail to: Michigan Department of Health and Human Services Division of Victim Services Crime Victim Services Commission Grand Tower, Suite 1113 235 South Grand Avenue, PO Box 30037 Lansing MI 48909 Not sure if you’re eligible? Click here to learn more about eligibility requirements. Where do I go for help with my application? If you need help completing your application, contact your local county prosecutor . They can connect you with a victim advocate who can help with applying for compensation and navigating the criminal court process. To find your county prosecutor and their contact information, click here . If you have questions about the Crime Victim Compensation program or the application process, you can also call the victim-only toll-free helpline (877-251-7373) or email us at MDHHS-MichiganCrimeVictim@Michigan.gov . To learn more about Crime Victim Compensation, available benefits, and program eligibility, click here . Applications Crime Victim Compensation Application - English Crime Victim Compensation Application - Spanish Crime Victim Compensation Application - Arabic Guides Application Reference Guide - English Application Reference Guide - Spanish Application Reference Guide - Arabic Compensation Reference Guide Checklists Application Checklist - English Application Checklist - Spanish Application Checklist - Arabic Questions? Contact Us! If you have questions about the Crime Victim Compensation program or the application process, call or email the Crime Victim Compensation program for assistance. If you need help completing your application, contact your local county prosecutor . You can search for your local prosecutor by clicking here . 877-251-7373 Victims-Only Toll-Free Line 517-241-7373 Office Line MDHHS-MichiganCrimeVictim@Michigan.gov Email Follow us