What Costs May Be Covered for Crime Victims? Skip to main content Unsupported Browser Detected The web Browser you are currently using is unsupported, and some features of this site may not work as intended. Please update to a modern browser such as Chrome, Firefox or Edge to experience all features Michigan.gov has to offer. Supported Browsers Google Chrome Safari Microsoft Edge Firefox What Costs May Be Covered for Crime Victims? What Costs May Be Covered for Crime Victims? What Costs May Be Covered for Crime Victims? Medical equipment Costs that May Be Covered Available benefits that may be covered under crime victim compensation include: Reasonable and necessary medical, dental, optical, counseling, and non-medical remedial treatment. Loss of earnings due to recovering from injuries or seeking medical attention due to the crime; obtaining counseling or victim services; providing care or assistance to a victim recovering from injury due to the crime. Eyeglasses, hearing aids, dentures, prosthetic devices, or other prescription devices, if damaged during or needed because of the crime. Funeral and cemetery expenses incurred for burial, funeral services, flowers, transporting of the body, grave marker (up to $500), etc. Crime scene clean-up inside the home or vehicle where the crime occurred and replacement costs for clothing or bedding held as evidence. Loss of support for dependents of homicide victims. Grief counseling (for homicide crimes only). Bereavement to attend the funeral (or alternative ceremony) of the deceased victim; to make arrangements necessitated by the death of the victim; for a person grieving the death of the deceased victim. Transportation for an eligible claimant to access services from a victim services organization, medical care, or mental health care, or attend the funeral of a victim or intervenor. Residential security to install, increase, or replace security at victim or claimant residence if the crime happened there, including installing home security device or system, replacing or repairing windows and locks, or increasing number of locks. Accessibility and rehabilitative equipment or devices needed because of an injury, including modifications necessary to make a residence or vehicle accessible or those that were damaged in the course of the crime. Relocation (temporary or permanent) to protect the victim or claimant's physical safety or emotional wellbeing as a result of the crime. Replacement services that, because of the victim's injury or claimant' attendance at a victim services organization to receive services related to the crime, must be performed by another person. Costs that are NOT Covered Costs that are NOT covered under Michigan’s Crime Victim Compensation program include: Fraud or financial crimes. Damage, repair or loss to some personal property or vehicle, such as a purse or cell phone. Pain, suffering, or emotional distress damages. Costs of participating in a trial. Expenses paid by other sources (public or private health insurance, life insurance, disability insurance, workers compensation, auto insurance, etc.). Any expense that is not directly related to the crime. Crime Victim Compensation Award Limits Recently the maximum award limit was increased from $25,000 to $45,000. Below are the award limits for each benefit category: Benefit Type Definition Award Limit Medical Expenses, Dental Expenses Victim Reasonably incurred expenses for medical or other services necessary as a result of the personal injury upon which the claim is based. $45,000 aggregate Nonmedical Remedial Treatment Victim Nonmedical remedial treatment rendered to the victim or intervenor in accordance with a recognized religious method of healing. $45,000 aggregate Psychological Counseling Victim and Claimant 35 sessions, 20 family sessions $80/hour for a therapist/counselor $125/hour for a psychologist/physician $45,000 aggregate Accessibility and Rehabilitative Equipment Victim Equipment or devices that a victim or intervenor needs because of an injury of the victim or intervenor caused by the crime, including, but not limited to, modifications necessary to make a residence or vehicle accessible for a victim or intervenor. Replacement equipment or devices that a victim or intervenor needs because the equipment or device of the victim or intervenor was damaged in the course of a crime. $45,000 aggregate Replacement Services Victim and Claimant Homemaking tasks, childcare, and other services previously performed by an eligible claimant, that, because of the victim’s injury, or the claimant’s attendance at a victim services organization to receive services related to the crime, must temporarily or permanently be performed by another person. $45,000 aggregate Replacement Costs Victim and Claimant Clothing or bedding of an eligible claimant that is held as evidence of a crime. $250 Relocation ( Temporary or Permanent) Victim and Claimant The first month of rent, a security deposit, and the costs to start utilities in the dwelling unit to which the claimant relocates. The commission may require the claimant to provide a signed rental agreement to verify these expenses. Moving expenses, including, but not limited to, costs to rent a truck, travel, and for moving services. Costs for temporary lodging for not more than 30 days. $3,800 Transportation Victim and Claimant For an eligible claimant to access services from a victim services organization, medical care, or mental health care, or to attend the funeral of a victim or intervenor. $1,000 (<50 miles) $5,000 (>50 miles) Residential Security Victim and Claimant Installing, increasing, or replacing security at victim residence or at a claimant residence if crime happened there, including installing home security device or system, replacing, or repairing windows and locks, or increasing number of locks. $1,000 New Benefits: Relocation & Residential Security
                                                                Video New Benefits: Relocation & Residential Security Learn more about new benefits now included in Michigan’s Crime Victim Compensation program. Watch on YouTube Under-Utilized Benefits
                                                                Video Under-Utilized Benefits Learn more about Crime Victim Compensation benefits that are often under-utilized. Watch on YouTube Homicides & Crime Victim Compensation
                                                                Video Homicides & Crime Victim Compensation Learn more about benefits relevant to homicide that may be available to eligible Crime Victim Compensation applicants. Watch on YouTube Sexual Assault & Crime Victim Compensation
                                                                Video Sexual Assault & Crime Victim Compensation Learn more about benefits administered through Michigan’s Crime Victim Compensation program for victims of sexual assault. Watch on YouTube Questions? Contact Us! If you have questions about the Crime Victim Compensation program or the application process, call or email the Crime Victim Compensation program for assistance. If you need help completing your application, contact your local county prosecutor . You can search for your local prosecutor by clicking here . 877-251-7373 Victims-Only Toll-Free Line 517-241-7373 Office Line MDHHS-MichiganCrimeVictim@Michigan.gov Email Follow us