Crime Victim Compensation Skip to main content Unsupported Browser Detected The web Browser you are currently using is unsupported, and some features of this site may not work as intended. Please update to a modern browser such as Chrome, Firefox or Edge to experience all features Michigan.gov has to offer. Supported Browsers Google Chrome Safari Microsoft Edge Firefox Crime Victim Compensation Crime Victim Compensation x6OqbwOaKGY Crime Victim Compensation For Your Awareness Internet browsing and chat history can be monitored and it can be challenging to erase completely. Based on your individual circumstances, we encourage you to clear your browser history after visiting this website. You can also click the red "EXIT” button in the bottom-left corner of your screen at any time to leave this site immediately. Learn more about technology safety and privacy Find out if you qualify for Michigan's Crime Victim Compensation Program Crime Victim Compensation Anyone can become a victim of crime. The physical, emotional, and financial impact of trauma can last far beyond the crime itself. But you are not alone. If you or someone you know is a victim of crime, certain expenses may qualify for Crime Victim Compensation coverage. This program may help pay out-of-pocket medical expenses, lost earnings, funeral bills, counseling, or other expenses for people who have been harmed as the direct result of a crime. Contact the Michigan Crime Victim Compensation Program to learn more. Apply for Crime Victim Compensation Learn More about Crime Victim Compensation Woman talking on phone What is Crime Victim Compensation? Certain expenses may qualify for Crime Victim Compensation coverage. Check marks on paper Do I Qualify? Learn more about eligibility requirements and covered crimes to see if you may qualify. Medical equipment What Costs May Be Covered? Learn more about award limits and costs that may be covered under compensation. Apply Now on computer keyboard How Do I Apply? Learn more about what you'll need before you apply, the application process, and how to get help with filling out and submitting your application. Person holding phone with navigation Need Help with your Application? The Crime Victim Compensation Navigator Program is available to help and support you through the application process. Learn more about the Navigator Program Tools & Resources Click the links below to view and download your application, checklists, guides, brochures, posters and the most frequently asked questions about Michigan’s Crime Victim Compensation program. Applications, Guides & Checklists Video Library Downloadable Materials Frequently Asked Questions S.A.F.E. Response Did you know that if you are a victim of sexual assault, you can get a forensic exam without being billed for it? Learn more about S.A.F.E. Response Sexual Assault Awareness Ribbon Questions? Contact Us! If you have questions about the Crime Victim Compensation program or the application process, call or email the Crime Victim Compensation program for assistance. If you need help completing your application, contact your local county prosecutor . You can search for your local prosecutor by clicking here . 877-251-7373 Victims-Only Toll-Free Line 517-241-7373 Office Line MDHHS-MichiganCrimeVictim@Michigan.gov Email EXIT Follow us