SAFE Response Skip to main content Unsupported Browser Detected The web Browser you are currently using is unsupported, and some features of this site may not work as intended. Please update to a modern browser such as Chrome, Firefox or Edge to experience all features Michigan.gov has to offer. Supported Browsers Google Chrome Safari Microsoft Edge Firefox SAFE Response SAFE Response SAFE Response Did you know that if you are a victim of sexual assault, you can get a forensic exam without being billed for it? A hospital, doctor or nurse cannot require a sexual assault victim to talk to the police in order to get a medical forensic examination. SAFE Response does not change the duty that hospitals, doctors and nurses have to report crimes to police as described in MCL 750.411. It is important that victims know about health care providers' duty to report some crimes to police, because sometimes the victim will need to take steps to protect themselves against retaliation that may result from the report. If a victim believes submitting a claim to their insurance carrier would substantially interfere with his or her personal privacy or safety, the doctor or nurse can bill SAFE Response for the forensic examination. Other physical injuries: If a sexual assault victim sustains a personal physical injury that needs to be treated other than the forensic exam, he or she may be eligible for assistance with medical bills through the Crime Victim Services Commission compensation program. The victim would have to submit a compensation claim application, report the incident to the police, cooperate with the investigation and utilize their medical insurance, including Medicaid, Medicare, or any other resource available for payment. Payment of the victim's sexual assault examination does not guarantee that they will be eligible for compensation benefits. Crime Victims Services Commission SAFE Response Grand Tower, Suite 1113 PO Box 30037 Lansing, MI  48909 (517) 335-7233 FAX (517) 373-2439 Sexual Assault Forensic Exam (S.A.F.E.)
                                                                Video Sexual Assault Forensic Exam (S.A.F.E.) If you are a victim of sexual assault, you can get a forensic exam without being billed for it. Sexual Assault and Crime Victim Compensation
                                                                Video Sexual Assault and Crime Victim Compensation Learn more about benefits administered through Michigan’s Crime Victim Compensation program for victims of sexual assault. Watch on YouTube Related Materials SAFE Response Brochure SAFE Response Claim Form Instructions SAFE Response Claim Form SAFE Response Claim Form (Fillable) SAFE CPT Code Listing Crisis Hotline Phone Numbers Follow us