Attorney General: Address Confidentiality Program Skip to main content Unsupported Browser Detected The web Browser you are currently using is unsupported, and some features of this site may not work as intended. Please update to a modern browser such as Chrome, Firefox or Edge to experience all features Michigan.gov has to offer. Supported Browsers Google Chrome Safari Microsoft Edge Firefox Address Confidentiality Program Modern apartment buildings on a sunny day with a blue sky Address Confidentiality Program Address Confidentiality Program Logo Address Confidentiality Program Act In December 2020, Governor Whitmer signed the Address Confidentiality Program Act, 301 of 2020 . The Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) was created to provide certain protections for victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, human trafficking, or those who fear that disclosure of their physical address will increase the risk of harm. ACP is a statewide confidentiality program administered by the Michigan Department of Attorney General.  ACP operates to shield a program participant’s actual physical address by providing an official designated/substitute address and free mail forwarding service. View Related Press Releases Address Confidentiality Program
                                                                Video Address Confidentiality Program For anyone who is at an increased risk of physical harm or threats – including the victims of stalking, domestic violence, sexual assault, or human trafficking – the fear of being found by their perpetrator can be overwhelming. The Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) helps victims of violent crimes and individuals at risk of being threatened or physically harmed to keep their address confidential. Learn More How Can We Help? Find a Certified Application Assistant or Victim Advocate Near You If a victim advocate is not currently available in your area, the Department of Attorney General can help register you and/or your family. Please contact 313-456-0190 and ask for an Address Confidentially Advocate. Applicants Participants Application Assistants & Victim Advocates Schools Law Enforcement State & Local Government Agencies ACP Online Contact Form Michigan Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) Online contact form When to Request ACP Assistance The Department of Attorney General ACP team is experiencing high volumes of phone calls and email correspondence pertaining to the application process. Before completing the online contact request form , please review the following: Information about ACP and the ACP process is available on this page. The FAQ's located at the bottom of this page may address many of your questions. To submit an application, you must first contact a victim advocate or application assistant . We are working diligently to respond to everyone. All correspondence will be answered in the order in which it was received. Request Assistance Frequently Asked Questions What is the Address Confidentiality Program Act? In December 2020, Governor Whitmer signed the Address Confidentiality Program Act, Act 301 of 2020. The Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) was created to provide certain protections for victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, human trafficking, or those who fear that disclosure of their physical address will increase the risk of harm. ACP operates to shield a program participant’s actual physical address by providing an official designated/substitute address and free mail forwarding service. The participant will receive an ID card to show as proof of participation in the program and a corrected driver’s license or state ID. The designated (substitute) address can be used instead of the program participant’s real address. The designated address can be used by governmental entities, employers, schools, or institutions of higher education, whenever an address is required by public agencies. Private companies are not required by law to use the substitute address; however, program participants can request they use it. What can I do in the meantime to protect myself? If you are a victim of domestic violence, stalking, human trafficking, or sexual assault, we recommend you reach out to your local victim services organization to discuss safety planning and resources available to you.  Local organizations can be found here: Find Services In Your Area . If you are in immediate danger, call 911. Who is ineligible or cannot be certified to participate in the ACP? Individuals are ineligible or cannot be certified for the ACP if: A person is required to register under the Sex Offender's Registration Act, 1994 PA 295, MCL 28.721 to 28.736. The confidential address has been provided to the secretary of state. A person is not moving or not planning to move. How do I report an address change? If you have moved to a different confidential address, you must notify the ACP within 30 days of the change. All address changes must be made through the ACP. To request a change, submit a Change of Information form to ACP. The form can be submitted electronically or downloaded from our website and mailed to the ACP, 3030 W. Grand Blvd., Detroit, MI  48202. The Secretary of State (SOS) can only make an address change if your participation in the ACP is canceled. Does the ACP provide moving assistance? Unfortunately, the ACP does not provide moving assistance. You may contact a victim services organization for resources. Local organizations can be found here . How do I get my statement notarized? How to get a document notarized: Option 1 : Notary personally knows the individual who is requesting a notarial act. Option 2 : Signer provides a valid driver's license, passport, or other pictured state/federal-issued personal identification card. Option 3 : Notary upon the oath or affirmation of a credible witness personally known by the Notary, and the witness personally knows the individual. Where to find notary services: City and county clerk's office, banks, credit unions, UPS, FEDEX, your place of employment, colleges, and universities. A list of notaries is also found on the Secretary of State website . The Application Assistant or Victim Advocate's organization may also have notary services. How long will my mail be delayed? The mail sent to the designated address is repackaged and then sent to the confidential address.  Participants should expect a 3-5 day delay in mail delivery. Do private businesses have to accept an ACP participant's designated address? The ACP law does not require private businesses to accept an ACP Participant's designated address. However, private companies or agencies are encouraged to make every effort to keep a participant's information safe by accepting the designated address whenever possible. Resources Address Confidentiality Program Act Crime Victim Rights Crime Victim Rights Brochure (PDF) Michigan Address Confidentiality Program Brochure (PDF) Michigan Coalition To End Domestic & Sexual Violence Michigan Department of Corrections Crime Victim Services Michigan Department of Health & Human Services Crime Victim Services Commission Michigan Domestic Violence Hotline Michigan Sheriffs' Association Sheriffs' Office National Center for Victims of Crime National Domestic Violence Hotline National Human Trafficking Hotline Prosecuting Attorneys Association of Michigan Victim Rights Unit Substance Abuse & Mental Health Services Voices4 855-864-2374 or (855-VOICES4) ESCAPE Follow us