Title 22
CORRECTIONS, CRIMINAL JUSTICE AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
Part XIII. Crime Victims Reparations Board
f. proceeds of a contract of insurance payable to the
claimant for pecuniary loss sustained by the claimant by
reason of the crime.

Chapter 1. Authority and Definitions
§101.

Authority

A. Rules and regulations are hereby established by the
Crime Victims Reparations Board by order of the Crime
Victims Reparations Act, R.S. 46:1801 et seq., Act 250 of
the 1982 Louisiana Legislature.

g. a contract providing prepaid hospital and other
health care services, or benefits for disability.
Dependent―spouse or any person who is a dependent
of a victim within the meaning of Section 152 of the United
States Internal Revenue Code.

AUTHORITY NOTE: Promulgated in accordance with R.S.
46:1801 et seq.
HISTORICAL NOTE: Promulgated by the Office of the
Governor, Commission on Law Enforcement and Administration of
Criminal Justice, Crime Victims Reparations Board, LR 20:537
(May 1994).

§103.

Heathcare Facility—a facility or institution providing
healthcare services, including but not limited to a hospital or
other licensed inpatient center; ambulatory surgical or
treatment center; skilled nursing facility; inpatient hospice
facility; residential treatment center; diagnostic, laboratory,
or imaging center; or rehabilitation or other therapeutic
health setting.

Definitions

A. The following terms as used in these regulations,
unless the context otherwise requires or unless redefined by
a particular part hereof, shall have the following meanings.

Healthcare Provider—a physician or other healthcare
practitioner licensed, certified, registered, or otherwise
authorized to perform specified healthcare services
consistent with state law.

Accessory―an accessory after the fact and also a
principal, as defined by the Louisiana Criminal Code.
Board―Crime Victims Reparations Board.

Healthcare Services—means services, including but not
limited to items, supplies, or drugs for the diagnosis,
prevention, treatment, cure, or relief of a health condition,
illness, injury, or disease ancillary to a sexually-oriented
offense.

Child―unmarried person under 18 years of age;
includes a natural child, adopted child, stepchild, illegitimate
child, any of the above who is a student not over 23 years of
age, and a child conceived prior to but born after the
personal injury or death of the victim.

Pecuniary Loss—amount of expense reasonably and
necessarily incurred by reason of personal injury as a
consequence of death, or a catastrophic property loss, and
includes:

Claimant—a victim or a dependent of a deceased
victim, or the legal representative of either, an intervenor, the
healthcare provider who provides healthcare services
associated with a forensic medical examination as defined in
R.S. 15:622, or in the event of a death, a person who legally
assumes the obligation or who voluntarily pays the medical
or the funeral or burial expenses incurred as a direct result of
the crime.

a.

i.
medical, hospital, nursing, or psychiatric care
or counseling, and physical therapy;
ii.
actual loss of past earnings and anticipated loss
of future earnings because of a disability resulting from the
personal injury; or the receipt of medically indicated
services for a victim related to the personal injury.

Collateral Source or Resource―source of benefits for
pecuniary loss awardable, other than under these rules,
which the claimant has received or which is readily available
to him/her from any or all of the following:

iii.

a. the offender under an order of restitution to the
claimant imposed by a court as a condition of probation or
otherwise;

Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid;

d.

Workers' Compensation;

e.

wage continuation programs of an employer;

care of a child or dependent;

iv.
counseling or therapy for the parent(s) or
sibling(s) of a child who is the victim of a sexual crime;
v.
Loss of support for a child victim of a sexual
crime not otherwise compensated for as a pecuniary loss for
personal injury;

b. the United States or a federal agency, a state or
any of its political subdivisions, or an instrumentality of two
or more states;
c.

for personal injury:

b.
i.

287

as a consequence of death:
funeral, burial, or cremation expenses;

Louisiana Administrative Code

February 2025

CORRECTIONS, CRIMINAL JUSTICE AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
LR 24:327 (February 1998), LR 37:1605 (June 2011), LR 42:569
(April 2016), LR 50:1274 (September 2024).

ii.
loss of support to one or more dependents not
otherwise compensated for as a pecuniary loss for personal
injury;

Chapter 3. Eligibility and Application
Process

iii.
care of a child or children enabling the
surviving spouse of a victim or the legal custodian or
caretaker of the deceased victim's child or children to engage
in lawful employment, where that expense is not otherwise
compensated for as a pecuniary loss for personal injury;

§301.

A. To be eligible for compensation, an individual must
have suffered personal injury, death or catastrophic property
loss as a result of a violent crime.

iv.
counseling or therapy for any surviving family
member of the victim or any person in close relationship to
such victim;
v.
pecuniary loss does
attributable to pain and suffering;
vi.

not

include

Eligibility

1.

Victim Conduct and Behavior

a. The Crime Victims Reparations Board may vote
to deny or reduce an award to a claimant who is a victim, or
who files an application on behalf of a victim. When one
part of an award is denied, the board shall favor a partial
award over the total denial. And an award may be denied or
reduced when any of the following occurs:

loss

crime scene cleanup;

c. catastrophic property loss must be so great as to
cause overwhelming financial effect on the victim or other
claimant and shall be restricted to loss of abode;
d. any other expense associated with the collection
and securing of crime scene evidence.

i.
The victim was assisting, attempting, or
engaging in an illegal activity that substantially caused the
injuries that are the basis for the claim.

Reparations―payment of compensation in accordance
with the provisions of the act for pecuniary loss resulting
from physical injury, death, or catastrophic property loss by
reason of a crime enumerated in the act.

ii.
the totality of circumstances indicate that the
victim contributed to or provoked the offense through his/her
own misconduct.
b.

Sexually-Oriented Criminal Offense—includes any
offense listed as a sexual offense in R.S. 15:541(24).

i.
As Louisiana requires all vehicle occupants to
use seat belts, victims not wearing a safety belt and injured
or killed by a driver in violation of R.S. 14:98 (DWI), hit
and run, or other intentional acts will have their award
reduced, if found eligible otherwise.

Victim—
a. Any person who suffers personal injury, death, or
catastrophic property loss as a result of a crime committed in
this state and covered by this Chapter. This includes any
person who is a victim of human trafficking as defined by
R.S. 14:46.2, a victim of trafficking of children for sexual
purposes as defined by R.S. 14:46.3, or a victim of any
offense involving commercial sexual exploitation including
but not limited to R.S. 14:81.1, 81.3, 82, 82.1, 82.2, 83, 83.1,
83.2, 83.3, 83.4, 84, 85, 86, 89.2, 194.1, 95 and 282.

ii.
The total maximum award allowed under
current policy will be reduced by 50 percent.
c. The following factors shall not be considered a
reason for denying or reducing an award to a claimant who
is a victim of a sexually oriented criminal offense, or who
submits a claim on behalf of a victim of sexual assault:
i.
the manner in which the victim was dressed at
the time of the sexually oriented criminal offense;

b. a resident of Louisiana who is a victim of an act
of terrorism (as defined in Section 2331 of Title 18, United
States Code) occurring outside the U.S.; or

ii.
where the victim was located prior to the
sexually oriented criminal offense;

c. a Louisiana resident who suffers personal injury
or death as a result of a crime described in R.S. 46:1805
except that the criminal act occurred outside of this state.
The resident shall have the same rights under this Chapter as
if the act had occurred in this state upon a showing that the
state in which the act occurred does not have an eligible
crime victims reparations program and the crime would have
been compensable had it occurred in Louisiana. In this
Subparagraph, Louisiana resident means a person who
maintained a place of permanent abode in this state at the
time the crime was committed for which reparations are
sought.

iii.
offense;

February 2025

the time of the sexually oriented criminal

iv.

the occupation of the victim;

v.

whether the victim:

(a). was or may have been under the influence of
alcohol or drugs;
(b). had a previous sexual relationship with the
alleged offender;
(c). was married to the alleged offender;

AUTHORITY NOTE: Promulgated in accordance with R.S.
46:1801 et seq.
HISTORICAL NOTE: Promulgated by the Office of the
Governor, Crime Victims Reparations Board, LR 20:538 (May
1994), amended LR 22:709 (August 1996), LR 23:861 (July 1997),
Louisiana Administrative Code

Safety Belt Use by Vehicle Occupants

(d). was dating the alleged offender;
(e). consented to prior sexual activity with the
alleged offender;
288

Title 22, Part XIII
(f). has a history of being a victim of prior
sexually oriented criminal offenses;

iii.

d. The victim shall not be penalized for the failure
of an offender to meet legal obligations to pay for the costs
of the victim's recovery.

(g). has a criminal record;
(h). consented to the sexually oriented criminal
offense if the victim is below the age of consent, mentally
incapacitated or physically helpless;

e. If the offender fails to meet legal responsibilities
to pay restitution or provide for the medical and support
needs of a spouse or child, or if the offender impedes
payment of insurance that may be available to cover a
spouse's or child's expenses, the program should attempt to
meet the victim's needs to the extent allowed.

(i). continued to live with an alleged offender
after the assault;
(j). has a familial relationship to the alleged
offender.
2.

f. Payments to third-party providers will be made
wherever possible.

Collateral Sources
a.

g. Child victims will not be penalized by denying or
delaying payment when offender or collateral resources are
not forthcoming.

Restitution

i.
The board reserves the right to make an award
to a victim/claimant when a court of law has ordered
restitution by the defendant;

AUTHORITY NOTE: Promulgated in accordance with R.S.
46:1801 et seq.
HISTORICAL NOTE: Promulgated by the Office of the
Governor, Crime Victims Reparations Board, LR 20:538 (May
1994), amended LR 22:709 (August 1996), LR 31:2009 (August
2005), LR 35:65 (January 2009), LR 36:2278 (October 2010), LR
37:1605 (June 2011), LR 41:1487 (August 2015), amended LR
44:2143 (December 2018), LR 47:364 (March 2021), LR 49:922
(May 2023), LR 50:1274 (September 2024).

ii.
if the board makes an award, the court will be
contacted with a request for a change in the court order to
reflect that payments are to be made to the Crime Victims
Reparations Fund for the amount paid by the board.
b.

Insurance

i.
The victim/claimant must process any potential
insurance before applying for reimbursement of mental
health claims.
3.

§303.

Application Process

A. Claimant Responsibility
1. Applications for reparations must be submitted to
the sheriff’s office in the parish where the crime occurred,
filed online at the board’s website, or sent directly to the
board’s office. Applications involving an adult victim of a
sexually-oriented criminal offense are sent directly to the
board’s office.

Unjust Enrichment

a. When determining unjust enrichment or
substantial economic benefit to offenders in applications
involving domestic violence, the board will consider the
following factors.
i.
Has the victim reported the incident to the
authorities and has the victim cooperated with their
reasonable requests?

2.

Applications:

a. must be signed and dated by the victim/claimant.
If the victim is a minor, the parent or guardian is the
claimant and must sign. If the victim is deceased, the person
responsible for the expenses can be the claimant and must
sign the application;

ii.
In determining whether enrichment is
substantial or inconsequential, factors to be considered
include:
(a). the amount of the award;

c. An adult victim of a criminal offense is not
required to report the crime to any law enforcement officer
in order to file an application.

(b). the total amount of income to the household;
and

d. If a victim chooses not to report the crime to a
law enforcement officer, the claimant must submit
reasonable documentation (as provided by R.S.
46:1806(A.)(1)(b) with the application) to show the
commission of a crime relevant to the application.

(c). whether a substantial portion of the award
will be used directly by or on behalf of the offender.
b. If the offender has direct access to a cash award
and/or if a substantial portion of it will be used to pay for his
living expenses, that portion of the award that will
substantially benefit the offender may be reduced or denied.

3. The claimant, who is not a healthcare provider,
must list each expense being claimed.

c. The availability of collateral resources, including
but not limited to court-ordered restitution and medical
insurance, will be examined. A determination shall be made:

4. An itemized bill, not a billing statement, must
accompany the application for each non-FME expense
claimed.

i.
as to whether the offender has a legal
responsibility to pay;
ii.

whether payment is likely.

5. All invoices, bills, etc. must indicate the
victim/claimant as the guarantor and indicate balances owed.
For claims that pertain to victims of sexually oriented

whether the offender has resources to pay;
289

Louisiana Administrative Code

February 2025

CORRECTIONS, CRIMINAL JUSTICE AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
criminal offenses, the victim has the discretion to choose
whether or not to file for private insurance or Medicaid
coverage.

has been made to acquire that information, the application
will be placed on an agenda and the decision and award will
be based on that information available. Should the formerly
sought information become available, a supplemental
application can be filed.

6. The victim/claimant is required to use claim forms
to seek additional compensation after the original award is
made.

C. Awards to eligible victims or claimants for expenses
incurred but not yet paid may be made payable directly to
the providers.

B. Sheriff's Office Responsibility
1. Each sheriff will designate at least one staff
member to handle the applications of crime victims for the
board.

D. If a provider refuses a board check, the check will be
reissued to the claimant for the same amount as approved.
E. In those instances in which:

2. The sheriff's staff person, called the claim
investigator, will distribute the most current applications,
receive, process, and forward them to the board office in a
timely manner.

D. Appeals

§503.

1. If an application is denied and the victim/claimant
desires to appeal the board's decision, the victim/claimant
must file the appeal within 60 days from the date of the
denial letter.

Limits on Awards

A. General
1. There will be a $15,000 limit for awards for all
victims with the exception of those primary victims who
become totally and permanently disabled as a result of the
crime. For those awards, the board may, at its discretion,
award up to $25,000, depending on availability of funds, its
administrative rule limits for certain award benefits, and the
extent, if any, of collateral resources. For purposes of this
Section:

2. The appeal letter should furnish the board with any
new information not yet provided that the victim/claimant
desires to have presented.
3. The appeal will be scheduled for the next available
meeting.
AUTHORITY NOTE: Promulgated in accordance with R.S.
46:1801 et seq.
HISTORICAL NOTE: Promulgated by the Office of the
Governor, Commission on Law Enforcement and Administration of
Criminal Justice, Crime Victims Reparations Board, LR 20:539
(May 1994), amended LR 22:710 (August 1996), amended by the
Office of the Governor, Crime Victims Reparations Board, LR
41:1668 (September 2015), LR 42:570 (April 2016), LR 42:743
(May 2016), LR 49:922 (May 2023), LR 50:1274 (September
2024).

a. a victim is "totally and permanently disabled" if
the victim has a physical or mental impairment that
substantially precludes them from obtaining gainful
employment and appears reasonably certain to continue
without substantial improvement throughout their life;
b. the board reserves the right to obtain an impartial
medical expert, at its expense, if necessary, to assess the
degree of disability of the victim.

Chapter 5. Awards

2. All applications filed as the result of the death of a
victim will be assigned one claim number with the deceased
listed as the primary victim. Each additional claimant and/or
secondary victim must submit a separate application with the
appropriate claim form(s) and supporting documents. The
aggregate claims arising out of the same crime will be
subject to the maximum amount authorized by law.

Payment of Awards

A. Only verified expenses can be reimbursed.
B. Verification of Claimed Expenses
1. Each type of claim form used by the board should
identify the documents that must be submitted by the
victim/claimant to support and verify a claimed expense.

3. Payments for forensic medical examinations shall
not exceed $600 for the healthcare provider, and $1,000 for
the healthcare facility.

2. When applications lack documentation necessary
for a decision or award in total or in part, and adequate effort
February 2025

payment is being made directly to the provider; and

AUTHORITY NOTE: Promulgated in accordance with R.S.
46:1801 et seq.
HISTORICAL NOTE: Promulgated by the Office of the
Governor, Commission on Law Enforcement and Administration of
Criminal Justice, Crime Victims Reparations Board, LR 20:539
(May 1994), repromulgated LR 22:710 (August 1996), amended
LR 24:328 (February 1998), LR 50:1274 (September 2024).

b. Victim/claimant checks will be mailed directly
from the board office unless the sheriff specifies that he
wishes to have them mailed directly to the sheriff's claim
investigator for personal distribution.

Louisiana Administrative Code

2.

4. the claimant notifies the board that he has paid the
bill, upon verification and return of the check, the check will
be voided and reissued for the same amount to the claimant.

Check distribution will be as follows:

a. Provider checks will be issued directly to
providers from the board office.

§501.

an application has been approved for an award; and

3. the check either has not been sent or has not been
negotiated by the provider; and

C. Board Staff Responsibility
1.

1.

B. Attorney Fees
290

Title 22, Part XIII
1. The board does not reimburse victims for fees
charged by an attorney to prepare an application or represent
the victim in any way unless the fees result from a hearing
ordered by the board.

wages can be determined nor awarded. However, an award
for loss of wages based on seasonal, nonsalaried or
intermittent work, or a bona fide offer of employment may
be based on an average net anticipated salary for the period
of employment.

2. Those reimbursable charges are set at a maximum
of $50 per hour for a total of five hours or $250.

8. Only the following list of physicians can legally
determine physical disability:

3. The appeals process does not constitute a hearing.
Thus, any fees charged by an attorney to represent a
victim/claimant at an appeal are not compensable.
C. Funeral Expenses
1. The board will reimburse up to a maximum of
$5,000 ($6,500 for crimes occurring after May 1, 2023) to
cover reasonable expenses actually incurred for the funeral,
burial, or cremation.
2. Death and/or burial insurance taken out specifically
for the purpose of burial must pay first. The amount of life
insurance proceeds paid is no longer considered as a
collateral source for funeral expenses.

medical doctor;

b.

oral surgeon;

c.

psychiatrist;

d.

physiatrist;

e.

ophthalmologist;

f.

surgeon;

g. nurse practitioner or physician assistant (under
supervision of licensed physician).
9. If a victim is initially treated by one doctor and that
doctor refers the victim to another doctor, the referral doctor
can determine disability from the date of the incident.

D. Lost Wages/Earnings
1. When lost wages are part of a claim, lost wages will
be considered before out-of-pocket or other medical
expenses are considered.

E. Loss of Support
1. For loss of support for a surviving spouse or other
dependent to be considered, the following documentation
must be provided:

2. The inability to work must be directly related to the
victimization and documented by the appropriate medical
doctor. That medical opinion is subject to professional
review and audit.

a.

death certificate signed by the coroner;

b. individual federal and state tax return for year
before the crime to show dependency of claimant;

3. Violently assaulted victims who do not require
medical intervention (i.e., doctor visit, emergency room
treatment) will be allowed a reimbursable recuperation
period:

c. employment/wage verification completed and
signed by the victim's employer;
d. verification of life
dependent filing application; and

a. if no sick time or other compensation is
available, the board may grant up to five working days of
lost wages;
b.

a.

insurance

claimed

by

e. documentation that Social Security or other
pension benefits are not available to surviving spouse or
dependents.

wage verification by the employer is required.

4. The board may reimburse lost wages/earnings as
follows:

2. Loss of support for a surviving spouse may be
awarded at the discretion of the board when no other
collateral resources exist and the inability to work exists or
the opportunity to find work could be delayed due to age,
frailty, and lack of previous work experience.

a. 80 percent of the gross weekly wage of the
victim. For seasonal or part time wages, the amount shall be
calculated at 80 percent of the average weekly wage;

3. The board will reimburse loss of support up to a
maximum award of $ 10,000 ($15,000 for crimes occurring
after May 1, 2023).

b. for the loss of income from work by the parent or
legal guardian of a minor or dependent victim who must
miss work to obtain or provide the medically indicated
services or care for the personal injury.

a. The board may award loss of support up to the
maximum amount per week authorized for lost wages in
§503.D.4. That amount is based on net, after-tax, or take
home pay.

5. If workers' compensation or other private
disability/income protection insurance is available, those
policies must be paid out first before the board considers a
claim for lost wages.

b. When only gross income is provided by a
claimant, then the board will award the loss of support at 80
percent of the amount authorized in §503.D.4 for lost wages.

6. If the victim cannot return to work, the lost wage
period may include future lost wages.

F.

7. If a person is not gainfully employed or is not
receiving entitlement at the time of the crime, then no lost
291

Ambulance

Louisiana Administrative Code

February 2025

CORRECTIONS, CRIMINAL JUSTICE AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
1. A maximum of $300 for regular ambulance
transport. A maximum of $500 exists for air medical
transport.

(b). Master’s Level Providers (e.g., L.P.C.,
L.C.S.W., L.M.F.T., P.L.P.C, P.L.C.S.W, P.L.M.F.T., D.S.W. )
$90/session.

2. Air transport services are considered ambulance
services and reimbursed as such.

session).

(c). Group Therapy rates (90 minutes)($50/

3. The medical portion of the ambulance bill is to be
considered as a medical cost and paid at the medical per cent
consistent with all other claims for that claimant.

c. Therapeutic groups outside the per diem charge
of the hospital will not be reimbursed.
d. All therapist charges that are outside the per diem
charge of the hospital will be limited to no more than one
session per day at a rate described in §503.I.8.

4. If the ambulance bill is part of the total hospital bill
and the total hospital bill is under $15,000, the ambulance
transfer bills will be isolated and paid separately. If the total
bill is over $15,000, the ambulance charges will not be
isolated for payment.

7. Only those medicines and drugs prescribed by a
licensed physician are compensable.

G. Medical Expenses

8. Reimbursable providers include licensed medical
doctors, dentists, eye doctors, chiropractors, osteopaths,
pediatrists, psychiatrists psychologists, physical therapists,
etc.

1. The board reserves the right to audit any and all
billings associated with medical care. All treatment must be
considered "usual and customary" and be directly related to
the victimization.

9. Compensable medical services include emergency
ambulance service, medical examinations, X-ray and
laboratory services, whirlpool baths ordered by a doctor.

2. The board will not pay any interest, finance, or
collection fees as part of the claim process.
3. The board will pay up to 70 percent of all
outstanding charges after any third-party payment sources up
to the statutory limits.

10. Only services of a nurse as prescribed by a licensed
physician are compensable.
11. Aids such as hearing aids, false teeth, eyeglasses,
contact lenses, crutches, and wheelchairs needed as a direct
result of the crime or that were damaged or destroyed during
the crime are compensable.

4. If the total outstanding charges exceed the
maximum award cap, then all providers listed in the claim
will be paid out at the actual percentage for those bills in
relation to the available case funds.

12. Tattoo removal for victims of human trafficking:

5. Out-of-pocket paid monies will be reimbursed to
the victim prior to applying this payment schedule.
6.

(a). must be performed by board certified
physician; or

Rates for Reimbursement

(b). non-physician
acting
supervision of a licensed physician.

a. Physicians, psychiatrists, state-certified or statelicensed psychologists, licensed professional counselors, and
board-certified
social
workers
are
eligible
for
reimbursement. In addition, a provisionally licensed mental
health provider, who is under the supervision of a licensed
mental health provider, is eligible for reimbursement. The
session notes submitted to the board for review must be
signed by the supervising mental health provider.

I.

i.
The board will not reimburse for any intake
evaluation or psychological testing.

Mental Health Counseling

1. It is the board's opinion that the majority of those
directly victimized by violent crime (e.g., primary victims)
can obtain significant improvement within the first six
months of qualified counseling. The board recognizes that
short-term crisis management counseling may also be
needed for secondary victims (defined as primary family
members or cohabitors of the victim).

ii.
The board will not reimburse for any more than
one in-patient treatment, group or individual, per day.
Support or family day sessions and "community" meetings
are not reimbursable.
iii.
All in-patient mental health service charges are
reimbursed at the same session rate as out-patient mental
health services, that is:

2.

Limits on Charges

a. For the life of each claim, reimbursable charges
may not exceed $2,500. These limits include the cost of all
treatment services and psychological or neuro/psychological
evaluations/testing
as
described
in
§503.1.8.
Victims/claimants may apply for an additional $2,500 in

(a). Doctoral Level Providers (e.g. M.D. PhD.,
PsyD.), $110/session).

February 2025

direct

H. Travel Expenses. Transportation costs other than the
initial ambulance services are reimbursable only when
required medical care is not locally available. Certification is
required by the physician of record that local medical care is
unavailable. Allowable private vehicle mileage for
out-of-town travel is reimbursed at the rate published in the
current state travel regulations.

b. The board will not reimburse more than one
psychological evaluation (as defined in §503.I.5).

Louisiana Administrative Code

under

292

Title 22, Part XIII
reimbursement when there is a documented need for longterm mental health services.

1. A maximum award up to $ 10,000 ($15,000 for
crimes occurring after May 1, 2023) may be awarded if a
victim’s abode is owned by them and destroyed by criminal
act.

b. All applications for extended reimbursement of
mental health expenses are subject to peer review by a
psychiatrist or psychologist, licensed by the state of
Louisiana, consulting with the board which will have a peer
review of the following:

2. This loss must produce a
overwhelming financial effect for that person.

3. This is considered when no insurance exists or the
ability to rehabitate the structure is precluded due to lack of
personal resources.

i.
complete progress notes for crime-related
conditions(s) being treated;
ii.
any
psychological
evaluations/testing
pertaining to the crime-related condition;

3.

iii.

description of prior conditions or treatments;

iv.

updated treatment plan.

“verifiable”

K. Vehicular Incidents
1. Eligible expenses include those resulting from
death or personal injury as outlined in the statute if they are
incurred resulting from DWI or hit and run offenses, fleeing
felon incidents, or injuries intentionally inflicted with a
motor vehicle, boat or aircraft.

Limits on Evaluation/Testing

a. Psychological evaluation/testing may not exceed
$800 and neuropsychological evaluation/testing may not
exceed $1,500.

2. Vehicular accident related injuries, other than those
caused by the above are not compensable.

b. Any evaluation/testing must be conducted by a
licensed psychologist and should include the following:

1. Pre-existing child care costs are not reimbursable if
those same costs were being incurred prior to the crime.

i.

description of any structured interview used;

ii.

case formulation and DSM-V diagnoses.

L. Child Care Expenses

M. Crime Scene Evidence
1. Expenses associated with the collection and
securing of crime scene evidence are limited to:
a. reasonable replacement costs for clothing;
b. bedding; or
c. property seized as evidence or rendered unusable
as a result of a criminal investigation or lab test.
N. Medical Examination of Sexual Assault Victims

4. Treatment plans completed by the therapist of
record (or primary therapist) are required for consideration
of mental health expenses. The therapist must show that the
psychological condition being treated is a direct result of the
crime. Treatment plans must be fully documented in a
“problem” and “intervention” format. Detail must be
provided for both symptom and intervention. Single word
descriptors such as “nightmares” or supporting counseling”
will not suffice. Insufficient treatment plans will be returned
to the originating therapist and the case may be deferred or
denied until revised.

1. A healthcare provider can submit a claim for
reimbursement for a forensic medical exam performed on a
victim of a sexually-oriented criminal offense. The direct
reimbursement claim form must be accompanied by the
attestation form signed by the forensic medical examiner.
The healthcare provider who performs the forensic medical
exam will be reimbursed an amount as provided by law. The
healthcare facility at which the forensic medical exam was
conducted will be reimbursed an amount as provided by law.

5. Payments for services are subject to review and
audit by the board.
6.

Rates for Reimbursement

a. Only physicians, psychiatrists, state certified or
state licensed psychologists, licensed professional
counselors, or board-certified social workers are eligible for
reimbursement.

2. The reimbursement amounts for the forensic
medical exam will cover the services (listed by R.S.
40:1216.1).

b. The rates for reimbursement shall be the same as
authorized in §503 Limits on Awards G.6.b.

3. Healthcare services or expenses ancillary to a
forensic medical examination and directly related to the
crime may be reimbursed.

7. It is the board’s assessment that psychiatric
inpatient hospitalization of a crime victim is rarely required.
If under unusual circumstances such treatment is required,
compensation will be subject to a peer review as previously
described. Reimbursement for such treatment is limited in
amounts and procedures listed under “medical” services.

O. Crime Scene Cleanup
1. Crime scene cleanup means the removal or
attempted removal of blood, stains, odors, broken glass,
impurities or other debris caused by the crime or the
processing of the crime scene where the crime occurred.

8. Any claim for injuries sustained may be denied if
prescribed or preempted as a matter of law.
J.

2. Expenses submitted for cleaning the residential
crime scene of the victim may not exceed $2500.

Catastrophic Property Loss

3.
293

Types of allowable expenses for clean up include:

Louisiana Administrative Code

February 2025

CORRECTIONS, CRIMINAL JUSTICE AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
a.

equipment rental;

b.

disinfecting and cleaning supplies;

c.
purpose.

professional cleaning services insured for that

4

Expenses for crime scene cleanup cannot be used

for reasons of imminent danger, personal safety, or threat of
injury.
1.

a. where a victim/claimant is directly threatened
and there is a reasonable probability that physical and/or
emotional injury would result if the threat were carried out,
and/or

for:

P.

a.

repair of property damaged in the crime

b.

replacement of personal property;

c.

costs not directly billed to victim and/or claimant.

b. a victim was within sight and range of proximity
of a person brandishing a weapon or other dangerous
instrument and who felt reasonably threatened for their own
safety.

Loss of Support for Victim in Sexual Crimes

2. Reimbursement for relocation expenses is limited
up to $5,000 per household of the claimant.

1. Loss of support may be paid on behalf of a child
victim of a sexual offense if the offender was providing
support through employment or a benefits program before
the date the crime was committed.
2.

3. A police and/or incident report should be submitted
with the claim to verify the basis for relocation.
AUTHORITY NOTE: Promulgated in accordance with R.S.
46:1801 et seq.
HISTORICAL NOTE: Promulgated by the Office of the
Governor, Crime Victims Reparations Board, LR 20:539 (May
1994), amended LR 22:710 (August 1996), LR 24:328 (February
1998), LR 25:26 (January 1999), LR 26:1019 (May 2000), LR
29:577 (April 2003), LR 31:1330 (June 2005), LR 32:242
(February 2006), LR 35:65 (January 2009), LR:37:1605 (June
2011), LR 39:1042 (April 2013), LR 41:1668 (September 2015),
LR 42:570 (April 2016), LR 42:743 (May 2016), LR 44:270
(February 2018), LR 48:40 (January 2022), LR 49:922 (May 2023),
LR:50:1274 (September 2024).

Claimant qualifications:

a. must be a parent, or legal guardian of the minor
child(ren);
b. must provide documented proof that offender
supported the home and minor child victim;
c.

is only eligible if the offender is incarcerated.

3. The board may award loss of support up to $10,000
maximum ($15,000 for crimes occurring after May 1, 2023).
Q. Relocation. Payment for relocation expenses is for
those claimants who must relocate as a result of the crime

Louisiana Administrative Code

February 2025

“Threat of injury” is:

294

