Victims Compensation | Criminal Justice Coordinating Council Skip to main content Agency Wide Processing Delays Click here for more information. The Georgia Crime Victims Compensation Program eases the financial burden faced by victims of violent crimes by covering expenses related to medical bills, funeral expenses, mental health counseling and crime scene sanitization, as well as loss of income or support. Click here to find out what victims compensation covers and what you need to apply. Eligibility Requirements You may qualify if you: Were physically injured or witnessed a violent crime Suffered serious mental or emotional trauma as a result of being threatened or being present during a violent crime Were hurt trying to help a victim Are the parent or guardian of someone who was killed or injured as a result of a violent crime Depended on someone for financial support who was killed as a result of a violent crime Are not the victim, but have been paying bills related to the crime Have a child who was the victim and you relied on the offender for financial support Were the victim of family violence who relied on the offender for financial support Types of Expenses Covered The program covers the following types of expenses, up to the limits noted. The maximum program award is $25,000 per victim, per victimization. Medical Expenses: up to $15,000 Funeral Expenses: up to $6,000* Counseling Expenses: up to $3,000 Lost Wages Expenses: up to $10,000 Loss of Support Expenses: up to $10,000 Crime Scene Sanitization: up to $1,500 *For crimes prior to May 6, 2015, the categorical cap is $3,000 Reporting Requirements and Filing Deadlines The victim/witness must have reported the crime to the proper authorities within 72 hours of the crime, (unless good cause is shown). For crimes occurring prior to July 1, 2014, an application must be filed within 1 year of the crime, unless good cause is shown (a claim submitted 3 years after the victimization cannot be considered). For crimes occurring on or after July 1, 2014, the victim/witness must file a claim within 3 years of the crime or the death of the victim. However, if the victim is a minor at the time of the victimization, he or she can file an application until 3 years after his or her eighteenth birthday. If good cause is shown, the Board may extend the time for filing a claim. Most Common Compensable Crimes Child Molestation Cruelty to Children Child Abuse Human Trafficking Sexual Offenses Domestic Violence Reckless Conduct Homicide Homicide by Vehicle Hit-and-Run Serious Injury By Vehicle DUI Crashes Assault/Battery Robbery To Apply You can register to apply online by visiting victimscompportal.cjcc.ga.gov Or you can Download the application . Gather and prepare to submit your Complete Application Packet. A Complete Application Packet includes: A completed application with legible signatures where required. A copy of the police/incident report from the proper investigative agency that lists the victim or witness’ name and a summary of the incident. Mail a Complete Application Packet to Georgia Crime Victims Compensation at 104 Marietta Street NW, Suite 400 Atlanta, GA 30303. Additional requirements and information can be found on the program application..