Frequently Asked Questions | Criminal Justice Coordinating Council Skip to main content Agency Wide Processing Delays Click here for more information. If I did not report my sexual assault to the police, can I still apply for Victims Comp? If the sexual assault occurred after May 12, 2008 you are not required to have a police report to apply for the CVCP. The program may use documentation from the forensic medical exam which shows that a sexual assault occurred. A police report is required if you were assaulted prior to May 12, 2008. How do I use the Billing Tab in the Victims Comp Portal? For instructions on how to navigate within the Billing Tab, please download the Billing Tab Guide for the Victims Comp Portal from the Forms Page. Does your program cover suicide, or suicide related expenses? No. Our program does not cover suicide or suicide related expenses. What should I do when I get a Bad Request error message or can’t access the claims and bill sections in the Victims Comp Portal? We are aware of a caching issue with Chrome, Internet Explorer 11, Firefox, Safari and Edge browsers that causes users to get a Bad Request error message, or in some instances does not allow users to access information in the claims or bill sections. To fix this problem in Internet Explorer 11, Firefox, Safari and Edge browsers, you can use Ctrl-F5 to resolve the issue. If you are using Chrome, please follow the instructions below: In Chrome, press Ctrl-Shift-Del to show below pop up window. Then unselect everything except CACHED IMAGES & FILES . Click Clear Browsing . Close Chrome, Reopen to page https://victimscompportal.cjcc.ga.gov Please Note: Chrome is still our recommended browser. If you are having a problem that is not related to this issue, please Click Here .  We appreciate your patience as we work to improve your experience in the Victims Comp Portal. How long will it take for me have access to the Victims Comp Portal? Please allow 5-7 business days to complete this process. How do you register for the Victims Comp Portal? Go to https://VictimsCompPortal.cjcc.ga.gov to register for the Victims Comp Portal. Will the Program reimburse for Forensic Interviews (FI) for crimes that were disclosed after July 1, 2014 but occurred prior to that date? No. The Program can only pay for crimes that occurred after July 1, 2014. If the crime occurred in another state, but the FI was conducted in Georgia will the Program pay for the FI? No. The crime must have occurred in Georgia. What is the maximum reimbursable amount for a FI? The Program can pay up to $200 per victim, per victimization. Will the Crime Victims Compensation’s Forensic Interview Program pay for a follow-up interview? No. The Program only reimburses for one interview per victim, per victimization. Do you provide training classes to become a forensic interviewer? No. We do not offer the training to become a forensic interviewer. Who fills out the FME Application for Payment? The provider and/or facility (i.e. hospital, sexual assault center, or child advocacy center) that performed the FME. Does a separate application need to be submitted for each provider? No. One application is sufficient with the provider and hospital information completed and the bill(s) attached. If FME expenses are over $1,000.00, can we bill law enforcement or the patient’s insurance for the difference? No. The maximum allowable amount is $1,000.00 for the collection of evidence for a FME. What is the maximum CVCP will pay for the facility fee? The maximum that the Program will reimburse for a facility fee is $175.00. Can the facility fee be paid to an individual examiner? Not unless they are the owner of the facility where the exam was conducted. If I am a SANE, where do I find the “CPT Code or the Revenue Code”? While CPT Codes or Revenue Codes do not customarily apply to SANEs, the bill for service must include a descriptive itemized statement of the service(s) provided. Please refer to our CPT Code/Description of Services Reference Sheet to select the applicable description for the medical service(s) provided. How can follow up STI testing be listed on the initial bill? A separate bill can be submitted for the follow-up STI testing at a later date if the expenses have not exceeded $1,000.00. What is the turnaround time for the FME application? If a Completed Application Packet is submitted, the processing time is under 30 days. Once the application is processed, please allow up to 4 weeks to receive payment from GBI. If the victim does not want to report the crime, can an application for payment of the FME still be submitted? Yes. The victim has the right to a forensic medical exam, regardless of whether the victim participates in the criminal justice system or cooperates with law enforcement by pursuing the prosecution of the crime. How long does the memorial sign stay up? Memorial signs will remain erected for a period of five (5) years from the date of placement, at which time they will be removed by the Department of Transportation. When Is a W-9 Required? We require a completed W-9 form for new payees or payees who have not been paid in over a year to certify their identity. If you are a victim/claimant, you should provide a SSN or TIN. If you are a business, you should provide an EIN. The information on the W-9 must match the information in the IRS system for how you filed your taxes. How Soon Will I Get My Reimbursement Check? Once a claim is awarded, please allow up to eight weeks for a payment to be mailed/sent from the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI).