What Our Programs Cover | Criminal Justice Coordinating Council Skip to main content Agency Wide Processing Delays Click here for more information. Looking to learn more about what our programs specifically may cover? Want to know about the documents you’ll need to have ready when you apply? Here, we have assembled some tips about our programs and program benefits to help you prepare to apply ― including key documents you’ll need to gather. Victims Compensation Program Victims Compensation Program Medical and Dental Expenses (including prescriptions and copays) Up to $15,000 Submit copies of any medical or dental bills for which you are seeking compensation. See an example (PDF, 260.07 KB) . Prescriptions must include an itemized summary and an itemized bill from the prescribing doctor. Loss of Income or Support Up to $20,000 You are the victim and were gainfully employed at the time of the crime and suffered a loss of income due to the victimization. View the required documents (PDF, 125.52 KB) . Please Note: You can only be reimbursed when you missed work and were not paid, or your wages were only partially covered. You are the custodial parent/legal guardian of a minor victim or developmentally disabled adult and you missed work because of the victimization. View the required documents (PDF, 118.27 KB) . Please Note: You can only be reimbursed when you missed work and were not paid, or your wages were only partially covered. You were gainfully employed and suffered a loss of income due to attending court proceedings and/or meetings with investigative agencies (For example, law enforcement, Division of Family Services, etc.) or Prosecutor’s offices when not subpoenaed. View the required documents (PDF, 152.87 KB) . You are the surviving spouse, child, step-child, parent, or step-parent who was dependent for his or her primary support upon the deceased victim. View the required documents (PDF, 118.11 KB) . You are a victim of family violence who can establish financial dependency on the income of the incarcerated/absent offender at the time of the victimization.  To establish financial dependency, the victim must submit documentation proving that they are the spouse, child, or a person covered under the offender’s health insurance or listed as a dependent on the offender’s Federal/State Tax Return Transcript. View the required documents (PDF, 159.08 KB) . You are the parent, child, or spouse (including step relationships) of a deceased victim who was gainfully employed at the time of the crime and suffered a loss of income due to bereavement. As of July 1, 2019 siblings (and step-siblings) are also eligible for this benefit. View the required documents (PDF, 123.97 KB) . Mental Health Counseling Up to $3,000 Submit copies of any itemized counseling bills related to the victimization. See an example (PDF, 260.07 KB) . The counselor must be licensed and in good standing with the appropriate licensing board. View the counseling fee schedule. (PDF, 184.57 KB) A completed Psychological Service Report is required for reimbursement beyond the fourth session. Funeral Expenses Up to $6,000 Submit an itemized funeral bill, a signed death certificate and a receipt indicating the amount you paid (if applicable). Note: For crimes prior to May 6, 2015, the categorical cap is $3,000 Crime Scene Sanitization Up to $1,500 Submit an itemized bill from a company trained in crime scene and biohazard clean-up. Please note: mileage is not an eligible expense. Additional Programs Where Victims May Apply Directly Additional Programs Where Victims May Apply Directly DUI Memorial Sign Pays the cost of erecting a sign in honor of a person killed on a Georgia highway by an impaired driver. The crime must have occurred on, or after, May 13, 2004 and there must be a charge of DUI vehicular homicide. You will be asked to submit a DUI Memorial Sign Complete Application Packet, which includes (1) a completed application, (2) a police report or motor vehicle accident report that lists the victim’s name and DUI Charge and (3) a copy of the death certificate. To find out more about our DUI Memorial Sign Program, or to download forms, visit our DUI Memorial Sign page. Unclaimed Restitution Provides access to court ordered restitution that has not yet been claimed by victims/businesses. To find out if you have unclaimed court ordered restitution, or to download forms, visit our Unclaimed Restitution page. You will be asked to submit an Unclaimed Restitution Request Complete Application Packet, which includes (1) a completed and notarized Claim Form Application, (2) a copy of your Driver’s License or State Identification Card and (3) a request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification Form. Victim Support Programs Where Providers Apply For Reimbursement Victim Support Programs Where Providers Apply For Reimbursement Forensic Medical Examinations Under Georgia law, this program pays for the Forensic Medical Examination on behalf of sexual assault victims. The sexual assault must have occurred in Georgia on or after July 1, 2011. The program will only pay for the cost of a Forensic Medical Examination up to $1,000 per victim, per victimization. To find out more about our Forensic Medical Examination Program, or to download forms, visit our Forensic Medical Examination page. Forensic Interviews This program can reimburse for the cost of Forensic Interviews for minors or developmentally disabled adults, who may have experienced or witnessed a crime. The crime must have occurred in Georgia on or after July 1, 2014. The interview must be conducted in the context of a multidisciplinary and diagnostic team, by an interviewer with specialized training to conduct forensic interviews. To find out more about our Forensic Interview Program, or to download forms, visit our Forensic Interview page.