Chapter 144-1 THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE COORDINATING COUNCIL
Rule 144-1-.01 The Criminal Justice Coordinating Council
The General Assembly created the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council to provide the necessary leadership to coordinate
the major components of the criminal justice system by establishing a state-wide coordinating body which represents all
components and all levels of the criminal justice system, to administer grants and aid to state and local criminal justice
entities, and for other purposes.

Rule 144-1-.02 Administrative Assignment
(1) The Criminal Justice Coordinating Council is assigned to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation for administrative
purposes only. The Council has authority to:
(a) Exercise its quasi-judicial, rule-making or policy-making functions independently of the Georgia Bureau of
Investigation;
(b) Prepare its budget and submit its budgetary requests through the Georgia Bureau of Investigation; and
(c) Employ its own personnel as authorized or funds are appropriated.
(2) The Council shall adopt bylaws and rules of order consistent with its authorizing legislation for the conduct of
meetings and business.

Rule 144-1-.03 Repealed
Rule 144-1-.04 Repealed
Rule 144-1-.05 Repealed
Chapter 144-2 DEFINITIONS
Rule 144-2-.01 Definitions
Unless the context requires otherwise, the following words and terms have the following meaning:
(a) The "Act" means the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council Act, Ga. L. 1981, pp. 1306-1311 (O.C.G.A. Section 356A, as amended).
(b) "Agency" means the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council and its staff as created by the Act.
(c) "Council" means the voting membership of the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council as created by the Act.
(d) "Component" means any of the four traditional functions or main constituent parts of the criminal justice system
as follows:
1. "Law enforcement component" means that component whose primary duties involve the preservation of
public order; the protection of life, health, safety and property; and the prevention, detection and
investigation of crime.

2. "Courts component" means that component whose primary duties involve the application of the laws to
controversies brought before the court, the disposition of legal actions, criminal prosecution and the
general public administration of justice.
3. "Corrections component" means that component whose primary duties involve the maintenance in a
secure environment of those offenders sentenced to confinement, and the discipline, treatment and
rehabilitation of offenders through such confinement, parole, probation, counseling or other
constitutional means.
4. "Juvenile justice component" means that component whose primary duties involve the application of the
laws to controversies brought before the juvenile court and the maintenance of juvenile treatment and
rehabilitation programs for those persons adjudicated under the provisions of juvenile laws.

(e) "Criminal justice system" means the network of governmental and non-governmental entities whose functions
involve the preservation of public order; the protection of life and property; the prevention, detection,
investigation and prosecution of crime; the interpretation, application and adjudication of the law in the
administration of justice; the disposition of legal actions; and the discipline, treatment and rehabilitation of
offenders through confinement, in both the adult and juvenile jurisdictions.
(f) "Director" means the Director of the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council.
(g) "Emergency" means a sudden or unexpected occasion for action of pressing necessity; an unforeseen
combination of circumstances that calls for immediate action.
(h) "State administering agency" means a state office designated to administer federal assistance programs.
(i)

"Sub-grantee" means the government or other legal entity to which a sub-grant is awarded and which is
accountable to the grantee for the use of the funds provided.

Chapter 144-3 ADMINISTRATION
Rule 144-3-.01 Organization
The Director shall administer all rules and regulations of the Georgia Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, whose address
is 104 Marietta Street, N.W., Suite 440, Atlanta, Georgia 30303-2743.
(1) Council Membership. The Council is composed of twenty-six voting members, sixteen of whom serve in an exofficio capacity by virtue of the position held by each, and ten of whom are to be appointed by the Governor.
(2) Council Officers. The Council shall elect from its membership a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson.
(a) Chairperson. The powers and duties of the Chairperson are as follows:

1. Preside at all meetings of the Council and conduct such meetings in an orderly and impartial
manner so as to permit a free and full discussion;
2. Have the same voting rights as any regular member;
3. Establish and appoint committees, task forces or working groups as may be required in the bylaws
or as deemed necessary by him, her, or the Council;
4. Designate special advisory members who are not voting members of the Council for the purpose of
providing information for the use of the Council;
5. Serve as an ex-officio member of all committees, task forces and working groups;
6. Authenticate by his or her signature all official actions and/or resolutions adopted by the Council;
7. On behalf of the Council, advise the Governor and the General Assembly of the status of the
Council's efforts and endeavors;
8. Convene public hearings upon at least ten business days' notice in order to establish a record of
public comment. The presence of a majority of members will not be required to conduct public
hearings; and
9. Perform such other duties as the Governor, the General Assembly, or the Council may delegate to
him or her.

(b) Vice Chairperson. The powers and duties of the Vice Chairperson are as follows:
1. Perform all duties of the Chairperson in the absence of the Chairperson, or in the event of the
inability of the Chairperson to act;
2. Have the same voting rights as any regular member; and
3. Perform such other duties as the Governor, the General Assembly, the Chairperson or the Council
may delegate to him or her.

(3)

Executive Committee. The Council shall have an Executive Committee.
(a) Executive Committee Membership. The Executive Committee shall be composed of the Chairperson, the
Vice Chairperson, the Immediate Past Chairperson and committee chairpersons.

(b) Powers and Duties. In the event of an emergency which would preclude sufficient time or opportunity to
call and conduct a full Council meeting, the Executive Committee is authorized to act on behalf of the
full Council membership. Any such action by the Executive Committee will be subject to the review of
the full membership of the Council at the Council's next regularly scheduled meeting.

Chapter 144-4 FUNCTIONS AND POWERS
Rule 144-4-.01 Functions and Powers
The Council's functions and powers are as provided by law.

Rule 144-4-.02 Grant Administration, Generally
(1) Fair and Open Grants Act. The provisions of the Fair and Open Grants Act of 1993 (O.C.G.A. §§ 28-5-120 thru
127) govern the award of grants by the Council.
(2) Code of Ethics and Conflict of Interest.
(a) Members of the Council shall adhere to the code of ethics for board members established in O.C.G.A.
§ 45-10-3 which are enforced as provided in O.C.G.A. § 45-10-4.
(b) No member of the Council, who is associated with a grant applicant as an employee or member of the
applicant's governing body, is eligible to vote in the recommendation process. Members should also
disclose any other beneficial relationship with a grantee or program which could be affected by the vote.
Such a relationship may give rise to a conflict of interest. A member of the Council associated with a grant
applicant shall notify the chairperson of the committee or Chairperson of the Council of the potential
conflict and the appropriate chairperson shall determine whether or not the member should be excused
from voting on the specific grantee's application.
(c) Failure of a member to disclose a conflict of interest under subparagraph (b) will result in the nullification
of the vote on the particular grantee's application and may be considered a breach of the code of ethics.

(3) Requests for Grant Assistance. Any request for the Council to support a grant application or act in the capacity
of State Administering Agency in submitting a grant application will require twenty business days' advance notice
for Council review and recommendation to the Governor.

Rule 144-4-.03 Federal Grant Administration
The Council is designated by Executive Order of the Governor as the State Administering Agency for federal grant
programs. The Council, in its discretion, may delegate any portion of its review duties to a committee of the Council. The
following procedures are implemented by the Council in administering federal grant programs under its purview.
(1) Application. The agency shall prepare and submit any application according to prescribed federal guidelines and
with the approval and signature of the Director.

(2) Preliminary Allocation Plan. Upon award of federal grant funding, the agency shall recommend to the Council a
preliminary allocation plan that incorporates appropriate circumstances and priorities. The Council shall consider
the recommendation and approve an allocation plan which will determine the guidelines for a request for
proposal (RFP).
(3) Request for Proposal. A request for proposal consistent with the prescribed grant guidelines will detail the grant
program, application deadline, eligibility, priorities, procedures for sub-grant application and review process. The
agency shall, at a minimum, post notice of the availability of funds and the RFP on its website.
(4) Agency Review and Recommendations. Once the application deadline has passed, each application will be
reviewed for completeness, verification of the proposed budget, assurance of project conformance with grant
program guidelines and the preliminary allocation plan and confirmation of signatures of authorized officials. The
agency shall provide the Council with funding recommendations and supporting documentation.
(5) Council Review and Recommendations. The agency recommendations will be furnished to the Council members
at least five business days prior to a meeting at which a vote to award grant funds occurs. The Council may
question and discuss any sub-grant application, program or agency recommendation. A vote will be taken on
each application individually unless the Council determines that a vote on all recommendations at once or by
group is appropriate. A majority of those present will determine the recommendation.
(6) Appeals. Any applicant denied an award may appeal the Council's recommendation by submitting further
explanation of its proposal to the Director within ten business days of receipt of notice of the denial. The Council
shall review appeals within thirty business days of the appeal deadline, considering any agency recommendation
and exigent circumstances, and refer its determinations to the Director for further action.
(7) Governor's Approval. The Director will forward the sub-grant awards recommended by the Council to the
Governor for review and approval.
(8) Notice of Award. Following the Governor's approval, the agency shall produce and forward to each sub-grantee
an award package that includes required forms, instruction documents and other materials necessary to the
grant process.

Rule 144-4-.04 Post-award Administration
(1) Grant Monitoring. The agency shall monitor sub-grant programs through financial monitoring of initial and
adjusted budgets and review of requests for expenditure; evaluation of compliance with administrative, financial
and programmatic guidelines by utilizing desk reviews and on-site audits; and evaluation of program
performance in achievement of benchmarks.
(2) Reporting. The agency is responsible for reporting data and information required as a condition of accepting a
federal grant award. These reports may include quarterly financial reports of expenditures, cash match funds and
program income; individual progress reports that compile sub-grantee program activities; programmatic reports
detailing the use of funds during a particular time period and statistical and summary reports of program
performance. A sub-grantee that does not meet reporting requirements may be subject to a reduction in
funding.

Rule 144-4-.05 Certification of Crime Victim Assistance Programs
(1) Purpose. The Council promulgates these rules and certifies crime victim assistance programs under the authority
granted by O.C.G.A. § 15-21-130, et seq. and O.C.G.A. § 35-6A-4.
(2) Definitions. For purposes of approving or certifying crime victim assistance programs, the following terms and
phrases are defined as:
(a) "Certified crime victim assistance program" refers to any governmental or non-governmental program
which has met the criteria established by the Council.
(b) "Certified human trafficking victim assistance organization" refers to a certified crime victim assistance
program which also provides comprehensive trauma-informed services to child victims designed to
alleviate the adverse effects of trafficking victimization and to aid in the child's healing, including, but not
limited to, assistance with case management, placement, access to educational and legal services, and
mental health services
(c) "Child" shall have the same meaning as provided for in O.C.G.A. § 15-11-2.
(d) "County" or "county governing body" refers to a county commission.
(e) "Court officer" refers to a person charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from criminal fines
ordered by a court and will generally be the clerk of the court.
(f) "Court" refers to a superior, state, probate, magistrate, municipal or other court that assesses or collects
crime-based fines pursuant to Georgia law.
(g) "Crime" refers to any criminal offense defined by Title 16 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated or any
other applicable Code Section.
(h) "Eligible applicant" refers to any governmental entity or other organization that meets all applicable
criteria set forth by the Council based on the eligibility requirements for subrecipient programs contained
in the federal Victims of Crime Act of 1984 and the victim assistance rules promulgated by the Office for
Victims of Crime, U.S. Department of Justice.
(i) "Fine" refers to any criminal fine or criminal bond forfeiture ordered by a court.
(j) "Trafficking" refers to the offenses of trafficking an individual for sexual servitude and trafficking a person
for labor servitude as provided in O.C.G.A. § 16-5-46.
(k) "Victim" refers to any person against whom a crime has been perpetrated.
(l) "Victim assistance program" refers to any eligible governmental entity or other organization that
coordinates and provides direct services to victims of crime. Victim assistance includes, but is not limited

to, the following services: crisis intervention, emergency shelter, emergency transportation, counseling
and criminal justice advocacy.

(3) Application for and Evaluation of Program Certification.
(a) The Council will conduct certification of programs on a biannual basis, in even-numbered years.
(b) Application guidelines and forms will be available from the Council upon request.
(c) Any victim assistance program seeking certification to receive funds authorized under O.C.G.A. § 15-21131 must submit a completed application with supporting documentation to the Council for
consideration.
(d) No program will be certified that does not show proof that it:
1. Assists victims with applying for compensation from the Crime Victims Emergency Fund;
2. Coordinates services with any governmental entity and other organizations providing fundamental
victim services within the county it is located or serves;
3. Has on staff a graduate of the Georgia Victim Assistance Academy, the National Victim Assistance
Academy (either by attendance or completion of Victim Assistance Training Online) or other
program that certifies persons providing assistance to victims. Proof that a staff member is
scheduled to attend a certifying program may allow provisional certification of the program.
Having on staff a licensed professional in social work, psychology or related field may also satisfy
this requirement; and
4. Provides or will provide services to victims of crime. These services are categorized by the federal
government and by the Council as follows:
(i) Crisis counseling
(ii) Follow-up
(iii) Therapy
(iv) Group treatment/Support
(v) Shelter/Safehouse

(vi) Information/Referral (In-person)
(vii) Criminal justice support/Advocacy
(viii) Emergency financial assistance
(ix) Emergency legal advocacy
(x) Assistance in filing compensation claims
(xi) Personal advocacy
(xii) Telephone contact information/Referral
(xiii) Other

(e) Upon receipt of a completed application, the agency has twenty business days to review the application
and forward to the applicant correspondence from the Director either certifying its program as meeting
all criteria set forth by the Council or denying its certification request.
(f) If a program is denied approval it may, within ten business days of receipt of any rejection letter, appeal in
writing to the Council which may review the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting, conduct a
hearing to determine whether the appeal has any merit and either affirm, overturn or modify the initial
decision.

(4) Decertification. A program may be decertified if found to:
(a) Be delinquent in meeting the reporting requirements;
(b) Have used funds for activities other than providing direct services to victims;
(c) No longer meet the minimum criteria as set forth in 144-4-.01(d);
(d) Have failed to comply with these administrative rules; or
(e) No longer provide services as outlined in the original application.

(5) Certified Human Trafficking Victim Assistance Organizations. Any victim assistance organization that accepts
referrals from a law enforcement officer or agency or DFCS pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-11-130.1 must be certified
by the Council as a certified human trafficking victim assistance organization.
(6) Distribution and Reporting.
(a) County administration.
1. If there is more than one certified victim assistance program within a county, the county must
decide what percentage of the total funds will be given to each.
2. By law, a county may reserve up to five percent of the funds received in the previous year as a
contingency fund to sustain crime victim assistance programs. This reserve fund is not cumulative
and reserve funds do not roll over into subsequent years.
3. Each county must submit to the Council a financial report detailing the recipients of the funding
and the amounts disbursed to each recipient. If the county does not have a certified program and
the funds have been disbursed directly to the district attorney, then the county must so notify the
agency. Such reports are due January 31 and July 31 for the reporting periods ending December 31
and June 30, respectively.

(b) Certified victim assistance program reporting.
1. All certified victim assistance programs that receive funding from this source must report annually
to the Agency the amount of funds received, the number of victims served, the number of services
provided to victims and such information as the agency deems necessary to include in an annual
report. A report is due whether or not funds were received from the county in which the program
is certified. Such reports will be for the reporting period of January 1 through December 31 and
due no later than February 15 of the year following the reporting period. Failure to report may
result in decertification of the program. The Council shall make available forms for reporting upon
request and on its website.
2. In addition to the reports required above, all certified human trafficking victim assistance
organizations must report quarterly the number of victims referred to the organization, the
number of services provided to victims and such information as the agency deems necessary to
include in the semiannual report. A report is due whether or not funds were received from the
county in which the program is certified. Such reports are due April 30, July 31, October 31, and
January 31 for the reporting periods ending March 30, June 30, September 30, and December 31,
respectively.

Rule 144-4-.06 Crime Victims Compensation Board
(1) Purpose. In accordance with O.C.G.A § 17-15-1 et. seq., the Council acts as the Crime Victims Compensation
Board to administer the Crime Victims Emergency Fund. These Rules prescribe policies and procedures in
addition to those set forth in O.C.G.A. § 17-15-1, et. seq.
(2) Definitions
(a) "Board" means the Georgia Crime Victims Compensation Board.
(b) "Crime" means an act of violence as defined by O.C.G.A. § 17-15-2(3) that results in physical injury,
serious mental or emotional trauma, or death.
(c) "Crime scene sanitization" means the removal or attempted removal of blood, dirt, stains or debris which
requires hauling and dumping from the crime scene and may include the reasonable out-of-pocket cost of
cleaning supplies, paint, equipment rental, and labor purchased as a direct result of the crime or
investigation of the crime scene.
(d) "Claimant" means a victim or other person as defined by O.C.G.A. § 17-15-7(a)(1) who was not actively
engaged in criminal conduct at the time of their injury and who has incurred expenses that may be
reimbursed by the Crime Victims Compensation Board.
(e) "Director" means the Director of the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council or their designee.
(f) "Investigator" means an investigator of the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council.

(3) Members of the Board; Terms and Administration.
(a) The Director shall appoint at least five members of the Council to serve as the Crime Victims
Compensation Board. The members must include a law enforcement officer, a member of the State Bar
of Georgia and an individual who shall be, by virtue of training and experience, knowledgeable in the
operations of the entire spectrum of crime victim assistance programs.
(b) Board members shall serve at the pleasure of the Director for terms of four years. However, the term of
any Board member shall terminate in the event that Board member is no longer serving as a member of
the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council.
(c) The Director shall designate one member of the Board as Chairperson and one member as Vice
Chairperson for terms of two years. The Chair and Vice-Chair shall serve at the pleasure of the Director.
(d) Upon appointment to the Board, new members shall not be viewed as a voting member
until after attending their first Victims Compensation Board meeting. The Chair may make an exception if
it is deemed necessary to establish a quorum.

(e) The Victims Compensation Board is located as follows:
104 Marietta Street, NW, Suite 440
Atlanta, Georgia 30303
The Board shall meet in Atlanta or elsewhere throughout the State as necessary, at the call of the
Chairperson or Director.
The Board is empowered to contract for services from actuaries, investigators, and other specialized
personnel as shall be necessary to enable the Board to carry out its functions.
(4) Applications and Decisions by the Director.
(a) Claimants shall submit a completed application to initiate a compensation claim. The Board shall make
available the application and any additional forms necessary for the processing of claims.
(b) The submission of a completed application to the agency will be deemed proper filing with the Board. The
agency shall assist claimants with incomplete applications as necessary to assure their completeness.
(c) The Director may overturn a 72-hour reporting denial for good cause shown.
(d) The Director may overturn the denial for lack of cooperation with the program where all requested
documentation is submitted before the scheduled appeals hearing.

(5) Eligibility and Exhaustion of Resources.
(a) With the exception of those acts enumerated in O.C.G.A. § 17-15-2(3)(A), a crime must have been
committed in Georgia to qualify for compensation.
(b) The agency shall review each claim for the required findings, shall render an agency decision as to
eligibility, and shall award an amount based on the factors set forth in O.C.G.A. § 17-15-7 and O.C.G.A.
§ 17-15-8. No award will be made until the claimant has exhausted all other public and private resources
available to him or her (such as health insurance, employee benefits, worker's compensation, other state
government assistance, Medicaid/Medicare).

(6) Lost Wages/Loss of support
(a) Lost Wages. With the submission of verified documentation and following current payment guidelines,
the Board may consider covering all or part of the victim's income loss due to the victimization. The Board
may authorize payment of lost wage benefits:

1. To the victim who has been physically injured and/or suffered serious mental and emotional
trauma;
2. To the parent or legal guardian of a minor child or developmentally disabled adult who has been
physically injured and/or suffered serious mental and emotional trauma;
3. To a claimant attending court proceedings and/or meetings with investigative agencies (e.g., law
enforcement, DFCS, etc.) or Prosecutor's offices when not subpoenaed. In the case of deceased
victims, this benefit will be limited to the parents, children, and spouse of the decedent;
4. To bereaved parents, children, spouses, step-parents, step-children and siblings of a decedent.

(b) Loss of Support. The Board may award compensation for loss of support to a claimant who can establish
financial dependency on the income of a deceased victim or incarcerated/absent offender at the time of
the victimization. To establish financial dependency, a claimant must submit documentation that they are
the spouse, child, covered under the deceased victim's or offender's health care insurance coverage or
listed as a dependent on the deceased victim's or offender's Federal Tax Return. The Board may also
consider proof of co-habitation and joint financial documents that substantiates a claimant's dependency
on the deceased victim or incarcerated/absent offender at the time of the victimization.
1. In computing loss of support in the case of an incarcerated/absent offender,
(i) the victim or claimant must establish verifiable loss due to the assailant/offender's
incarceration and/or absence from the home;
(ii) the Board may only consider the offender's earnings, and/or the amount of money or
economic assistance contributed to the victim and victim's household at the time of the
victimization;
(iii) where the victim has received or is receiving a greater share of support contributed by
sources other than the offender at the time of the incident, no compensation for loss of
support may be awarded.

2. In computing loss of support in the case of a deceased victim, the Board shall only consider the
victim's earnings and/or the amount of money or economic contributions the deceased victim was
actually contributing to the claimant's household at the time of the injury.
3. In computing loss of support in the case of a deceased victim with minor children, the Board shall
consider proof of parentage and gainful employment of the deceased victim.

(7) Crime Scene Sanitization ("CSS").

(a) The Board may award compensation to the victim or claimant for the reasonable and necessary cost of
crime scene sanitization which is the financial responsibility of the victim or claimant and for which
reimbursement from other sources is not available.
(b) The CSS company must have specialized training or certification in crime scene or trauma sanitization.
(c) Awards of compensation by the Board shall not supplant existing state and federal funding sources for
crime scene sanitization.

(8) Counseling.
(a) Compensable counseling services are those services rendered by professionals duly licensed or certified
by the appropriate state authorities. After the first visit, compensation will not be provided for counseling
services without the submission of a complete Psychological Service Report ("PSR")/ treatment plan or
counseling verification form.
(b) Members of an adult victim's immediate family may receive compensation for counseling services
provided that the adult victim authorizes such use of their benefits for family members.
(c) Where a minor victim is involved, counseling benefits are reserved solely for the minor victim. Benefits
may be approved for the parent, guardian, and/or step-parents of the minor victim if deemed necessary
by the licensed professional and approved by the Director or Board.

(9) Disposition and Review.
(a) Approval or Denial. The Criminal Justice Coordinating Council must provide the claimant with an
electronic or mailed copy of the agency's approval or denial of their claim, as well as any associated
payment requests.
1. When the Director has initially denied a claim and, thereafter, the claimant makes a written
application for review of the Director's decision, the Director has the discretion, for good cause
shown and prior to review by the Board, to withdraw their decision denying the claim and to refer
it back to the initial investigator for additional investigation.
2. The Board, Director, or an investigator may request additional information from the claimant. Any
claimant who does not submit the documentation requested by the Board, Director, or an
investigator within the time specified in written correspondence requesting the information is
subject to having their claim denied.

(b) Review by Board. A claimant may submit a written request to the Board to request review of the
disposition of a claim. On its own motion, the Board may request that the Director or their designee
review a claim and make a written recommendation to the Board prior to a hearing.

1. A hearing will be set on the Board calendar and the claimant must be notified of the date and time.
2. Hearings before the Board may be conducted by a quorum of the Board.
3. Although hearings will be conducted in an informal manner so as to encourage claimants to plead
their own claims, if a claimant chooses to be represented by an attorney, that claimant shall be
responsible for the payment of their attorney's fees. Compensation funds shall not be awarded to
pay attorney's fees.
4. The Board shall render its decision within ten (10) business days after the conclusion of the
hearing. The Board may uphold, overturn or remand the agency decision for additional findings or
investigation.
5. When victims or claimants seek compensation for more than two claims within one year, any
subsequent claims may be submitted to the Georgia Crime Victims Compensation Board for
consideration.

Rule 144-4-.07 Unclaimed Restitution
(1) Court-ordered restitution that has not been claimed from the collecting authority within two years of the first
restitution payment is transferred to the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council for deposit into the Georgia Crime
Victims Emergency Fund.
(2) Entities that collect restitution must submit a victims' report on a periodic basis, including any restitution amount
submitted to the agency for transfer to the Crime Victims Emergency Fund. For each restitution amount, this
report must contain, at a minimum: the victim's name, last known address, the date(s) that funds were first
available and the case docket number. When there is no restitution amount reported, the report should indicate
that there are no restitution transactions for the period.

Rule 144-4-.08 Forensic Medical Exams ("FMEs")
(1) FME Eligibility.
(a) The sexual assault must have occurred in Georgia on or after July 1, 2011.
(b) The Georgia Crime Victims Compensation Program ("CVCP") will pay for FMEs performed in another state
as long as the crime occurred in Georgia and the provider performing the exam and the facility meets the
criteria set forth by the Program.
(c) When law enforcement requests an FME for allegations of child sexual assault/molestation, and there is
limited collection and evaluation of evidence, a Forensic Medical Examination Law Enforcement
Verification Form may be required.

(d) In instances where the Division of Family and Children Services ("DFCS") requests an FME for allegations
of child sexual assault/molestation on a child and there is limited collection and evaluation of evidence, a
Division of Family and Children Services Verification Form may be required.
(e) A payment request should not be submitted for a child who is in the custody of the Department of
Juvenile Justice at the time of the sexual assault.
(f) A licensed physician, physician assistant, registered nurse, SANE-A (adult adolescent) or SANE-P (pediatric)
must perform the FME.

(2) FME Billing/Payment Guidelines.
(a) The CVCP's Fee Schedule complies with the Georgia Worker's Compensation medical fee guidelines, as
such the Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) Codes, are considered "reasonable expenses."
(b) The provider and/or facility must bill the CVCP usual and customary charges for the FME and the actual
amount paid will be determined by the description in the itemized statement in conjunction with the
associated CPT Code, and/or the Revenue Code, as applicable.
(c) A Registered Nurse, SANE-A (adult adolescent) or SANE-P (pediatric) must bill their usual and customary
charge for the FME, and the bill for service must include a descriptive itemized statement of the service(s)
provided. As a convenience, the CVCP provides a CPT Code/Description of Services Reference Sheet to
select the applicable description for the medical service(s) provided.
(d) Payment made by the CVCP for an FME must be considered as payment in full. CVCP is not bound by any
billing or contractual agreements made between agencies and/or service providers.
(e) If the grand total for all bills (per application) exceeds $1,000, then a formula will be utilized to distribute
equitable payments to each service provider up to $1,000 per victimization.
(f) For each victimization, CVCP will cover the cost of one FME per victim. If more than two FMEs are
submitted in the same year for the same victim, any subsequent claims may be submitted to the CVCP
Board for consideration.

Rule 144-4-.09 Forensic Interviews ("FIs")
(1) FI Eligibility.
(a) The crime must have occurred in Georgia on or after July 1, 2014.

(b) The Georgia Crime Victims Compensation Program ("CVCP") will pay for interviews performed in another
state as long as the crime occurred in Georgia and the provider performing the interview and the facility
meet the criteria set forth by the Program.
(c) For each victimization, CVCP will cover the cost of one Forensic Interview per victim. If more than two FIs
are submitted in the same year for the same victim, any subsequent claims may be submitted to the CVCP
Board for consideration.

(2)

CVCP Billing/Payment Guidelines.
(a) The provider and/or facility must bill the CVCP usual and customary charges with verifiable
documentation related to the FI that details the specific referring agencies and the contact information
to include:
1. the name of the service provider,
2. the location,
3. the date of referrals, and
4. the specific services recommended.

(b) A maximum amount of up to $200 will be paid when funds are available.
1. The results of the interview must be used for the identification of needs such as social services,
personal advocacy, case management, substance abuse treatment, and mental health services,
and must be documented by submitting the Forensic Interview Referral Document (FIRD) or
similar form with the Application for Payment;
2. The interview must be conducted in the context of a multidisciplinary investigation and diagnostic
team, or in a specialized setting such as a child advocacy center;
3. The interviewer must have 40 hours of specialized training and be certified to conduct forensic
interviews appropriate to the developmental age and abilities of children or the developmental
cognitive, and physical or communication disabilities presented by adults;
4. Each interviewer must submit documentation of their training with the initial application before
payment will be disbursed; and

5. No award will be made until the provider and/or facility certifies that it has exhausted all other
public and private resources available and annually submits the Forensic Interviewer Funding
Certification Document (FIFCD).

Chapter 144-5 NOTICE OF GRANTS ADMINISTERED BY COUNCIL
Rule 144-5-.01 Anti-Gang Initiative
CFDA # 16.744.
This information is submitted by the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, to further establish program policy and
administrative guidance consistent with federal guidelines in order to implement Project Safe Neighborhoods, including
the Anti-Gang Initiative authorized by Federal Public Law 110-5, embedded secs. 101-104; Pub. L. 109-108, 119 Stat. 2290,
2302.
The Anti-Gang Initiative of Project Safe Neighborhoods is intended to enhance Project Safe Neighborhoods task force
efforts to combat gangs. In accordance with federal law, awards may be granted to state agencies, units of local
government and nonprofit organizations for the purposes of:
1.Enforcing state and local laws which establish offenses similar to crimes enumerated in the Federal Controlled
Substances Act ( 21 U.S.C. 801et seq.);
2.Improving the functioning of the criminal justice system; and
3.Emphasizing violent crime and serious offenders.
These three purposes are by no means mutually exclusive. They are in fact mutually supportive and integral to the State
of Georgia's ability to address effectively and comprehensively its drug and violent crime problem in any realistic way.
This information should be used in conjunction with the following which are hereby incorporated by reference:
1.Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, 42 U.S.C. 3711et seq., as amended;
2.Office of Justice Programs Financial and Administrative Guide, M7100.1;
3.Any other policy guidance which may be issued by the Bureau of Justice Assistance in the future;
4.Council Program Announcement and Request for Proposals; and
5. Any other policy guidance which has been or may be issued by the Council.
These documents and further information regarding making application for these funds may be obtained by contacting
the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, 104 Marietta Street, N.W., Suite 440, Atlanta, Georgia 30303-2743, (404) 6571956, Fax (404) 657-1957, email: grants.info@cjcc.ga.gov.

Rule 144-5-.02 Community Prosecution and Project Safe Neighborhoods
CFDA # 16.609.

This information is submitted by the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, to further establish program policy and
administrative guidance consistent with federal guidelines in order to implement Project Safe Neighborhoods, including
the Anti-Gang Initiative authorized by Federal Public Law 110-5, embedded secs. 101-104; Pub. L. 109-108, 119 Stat. 2290,
2302.
Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN) is a nationwide commitment to reduce gun and gang crime in America by networking
existing local programs that target gun and gun crime and providing these programs with additional tools necessary to be
successful. In accordance with federal law, awards may be granted to state agencies and units of local government for the
purposes of:
1.Enforcing state and local laws which establish offenses similar to crimes enumerated in the Federal Controlled
Substances Act ( 21 U.S.C. 801et seq.);
2.Improving the functioning of the criminal justice system; and
3.Emphasizing violent crime and serious offenders.
These three purposes are by no means mutually exclusive. They are in fact mutually supportive and integral to the State
of Georgia's ability to address effectively and comprehensively its drug and violent crime problem in any realistic way.
This information should be used in conjunction with the following which are hereby incorporated by reference:
1.Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, 42 U.S.C. 3711et seq., as amended;
2.Office of Justice Programs Financial and Administrative Guide, M7100.1;
3.Any other policy guidance which may be issued by the Bureau of Justice Assistance in the future;
4.Council Program Announcement and Request for Proposals; and
5.Any other policy guidance which has been or may be issued by the Council.
These documents and further information regarding making application for these funds may be obtained by contacting
the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, 104 Marietta Street, N.W., Suite 440, Atlanta, Georgia 30303-2743, (404) 6571956, Fax (404) 657-1957, Email: grants.info@cjcc.ga.gov.

Rule 144-5-.03 Crime Victim Assistance
CFDA # 16.575. Recovery Act CFDA # 16.801.
This information is submitted by the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, to further establish program policy and
administrative guidance consistent with federal guidelines in order to implement the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Victim
Assistance Grant Program. In 1984, VOCA established the Crime Victims Fund in the U.S. Treasury and authorized the Fund
to receive deposits from fines and penalties levied on criminals convicted of federal offenses. The Fund is the source of
funding for carrying out all the activities mandated by VOCA.
The purpose of this grant program is to assist states in providing high quality services that directly improve the health and
well being of innocent crime victims, and to improve and enhance the delivery of these services specifically to victims of
domestic violence, child abuse, sexual assault, and previously underserved victims of crimes. Applicants eligible for
consideration under this program are public agencies and private non-profit organizations, or a combination thereof.
This information should be used in conjunction with the following which are hereby incorporated by reference:

1.The Victims of Crime Act of 1984 as amended by the Children's Justice Act of 1986 and the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988;
2.U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Office for Victims of Crime Application Kit and Instructions;
3.Office of Justice Programs Financial and Administrative Guide, M7100.1;
4.Any other policy guidance which may be issued by the Office for Victims of Crime;
5.Council Program Announcement and Request for Proposals; and
6.Any other policy guidance which has been or may be issued by the Council.
These documents and further information regarding making application for these funds may be obtained by contacting
the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council,104 Marietta Street, N.W., Suite 440, Atlanta, Georgia 30303-2743, (404) 6571956, Fax (404) 657-1957, Email: grants.info@cjcc.ga.gov.

Rule 144-5-.04 Crime Victim Compensation
CFDA # 16.576. Recovery Act CFDA # 16.802.
This information is submitted by the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, to further establish program policy and
administrative guidance consistent with federal guidelines in order to implement the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Victim
Compensation Grant Program. In 1984, VOCA established the Crime Victims Fund in the U.S. Treasury and authorized the
Fund to receive deposits from fines and penalties levied on criminals convicted of federal offenses. This Fund provides the
source of funding for carrying out all the activities mandated by VOCA.
The purpose of this grant program is to provide federal financial assistance to states for the purposes of compensating
and assisting crime victims, funding training and technical assistance, and serving victims of federal crimes.
This information should be used in conjunction with the following which are hereby incorporated by reference:
1.The Victims of Crime Act of 1984 as amended by the Children's Justice Act of 1986 and the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988;
2.U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Office for Victims of Crime Application Kit and Instructions;
3.Office of Justice Programs Financial and Administrative Guide, M7100.1;
4.Any other policy guidance which may be issued by the Office for Victims of Crime; and
5.Any other policy guidance which has been or may be issued by the Council.
These documents and further information regarding making application for these funds may be obtained by contacting
the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, 104 Marietta Street, N.W., Suite 440, Atlanta, Georgia 30303-2743, (404) 6571956, Fax (404) 657-1957, Email: grants.info@cjcc.ga.gov.

Rule 144-5-.05 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program
CFDA # 16.738. Recovery Act CFDA # 16.803.
This information is submitted by the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, to further establish program policy and
administrative guidance consistent with federal guidelines in order to implement the Edward Byrne Memorial JAG

Program authorized by Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, 42 U.S.C. 3711, et seq., as
amended.
The purpose of this grant program is to assist states and units of local government in carrying out specific programs which
offer a high probability of improving the functioning of the criminal justice system. Special emphasis is placed on
nationwide and multijurisdictional projects and projects that advance national drug control priorities. In accordance with
federal law, states may award formula grant funds to state agencies and units of local government for the purposes of:
1.Enforcing state and local laws which establish offenses similar to crimes enumerated in the Federal Controlled
Substances Act ( 21 U.S.C. 801et seq.);
2.Improving the functioning of the criminal justice system; and
3.Emphasizing violent crime and serious offenders.
These three purposes are by no means mutually exclusive. They are in fact mutually supportive and integral to the State
of Georgia's ability to address effectively and comprehensively its drug and violent crime problem in any realistic way.
This information should be used in conjunction with the following which are hereby incorporated by reference:
1.Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, 42 U.S.C. 3711et seq., as amended;
2.Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, Public Law 109-162, January 5, 2006;
3.U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance Edward Byrne Memorial State and
Local Law Enforcement Assistance Program Guidance and Application Kit;
4.Office of Justice Programs Financial and Administrative Guide, M7100.1;
5.Any other policy guidance which may be issued by the Bureau of Justice Assistance in the future;
6.Council Program Announcement and Request for Proposals; and
7.Any other policy guidance which has been or may be issued by the Council.
These documents and further information regarding making application for these funds may be obtained by contacting
the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, 104 Marietta Street, N.W., Suite 440, Atlanta, Georgia 30303-2743, (404) 6571956, Fax (404) 657-1957, Email: grants.info@cjcc.ga.gov.

Rule 144-5-.06 Paul Coverdell Forensic Sciences Improvement Grant Program
CFDA # 16.742.
This information is submitted by the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, to further establish program policy and
administrative guidance consistent with federal guidelines in order to implement the Paul Coverdell Forensic Sciences
Improvement Grant Program authorized by Public Law Number 106-561 (12/21/2000), as amended.
The Paul Coverdell Forensic Sciences Improvement Grant Program (the Coverdell program) awards grants to states and
units of local government to help improve the quality and timeliness of forensic science and medical examiner services. In
accordance with federal law, states may award formula grant funds to state agencies and units of local government:

1.To carry out all or a substantial part of a program intended to improve the quality and timeliness of forensic science or
medical examiner services in the state, including those services provided by laboratories operated by the state and those
operated by units of local government within the state.
2.To eliminate a backlog in the analysis of forensic science evidence, including, among other things, a backlog with respect
to firearms examination, latent prints, toxicology, controlled substances, forensic pathology, questioned documents and
trace evidence.
3.To train, assist and employ forensic laboratory personnel as needed to eliminate such a backlog.
This information should be used in conjunction with the following which are hereby incorporated by reference:
1.Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, 42 U.S.C. 3711et seq., as amended;
2.Office of Justice Programs Financial and Administrative Guide, M7100.1;
3.Any other policy guidance which may be issued by the National Institute of Justice in the future;
4.Council Program Announcement and Request for Proposals; and
5.Any other policy guidance which has been or may be issued by the Council.
These documents and further information regarding making application for these funds may be obtained by contacting
the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, 104 Marietta Street, N.W., Suite 440, Atlanta, Georgia 30303-2743, (404) 6571956, Fax (404) 657-1957, Email: grants.info@cjcc.ga.gov.

Rule 144-5-.07 Residential Substance Abuse Treatment for State Prisoners
CFDA # 16.593.
This information is submitted by the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, to further establish program policy and
administrative guidance consistent with federal guidelines in order to implement the Residential Substance Abuse
Treatment for State Prisoners Grant Program authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of
1994, 42 U.S.C. 13701, et seq.
The purpose of this program is to assist states and units of local government develop and implement residential substance
abuse treatment programs within state and local correctional and detention facilities in which prisoners are incarcerated
for a period of time sufficient to permit substance abuse treatment. Applicants are required to incorporate model program
guidelines issued by the Office of Justice Programs, Corrections Program Office, in their applications.
This information should be used in conjunction with the following which are hereby incorporated by reference:
1.The Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, 42 U.S.C. 13701, et seq.;
2.U.S. Department Of Justice, Corrections Program Office Residential Substance Abuse Treatment for State Prisoners
Program Guidance and Application Kit;
3.Office of Justice Programs Financial Guide, April 1996 Edition, and subsequent amendments;
4.Any future applicable policy guidance issued by the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Corrections
Program Office;

5.Council Program Announcement and Request for Proposals;
6.Council Administrative and Financial Compliance Guidelines; and
7.Any other policy guidance which has been or may be issued by the Council.
These documents and further information regarding applications for these funds may be obtained by contacting the
Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, 104 Marietta Street, N.W., Suite 440, Atlanta, Georgia 30303-2743, (404) 657-1956,
Fax (404) 657-1957, Email: grants.info@cjcc.ga.gov.

Rule 144-5-.08 Sexual Assault Services Program
CFDA # 16.017.
The Sexual Assault Services Program was created by the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice
Reauthorization Act of 2005 (VAWA 2005), 42 U.S.C. § 14043 g, and is solely dedicated to the provision of direct
intervention and related assistance for victims of sexual assault.
The purpose of the program is to provide intervention, advocacy, accompaniment (e.g., accompanying victims to court,
medical facilities, police departments, etc.), support services, and related assistance for adult, youth, and child victims of
sexual assault, family and household members of victims, and those collaterally affected by the sexual assault.
This information should be used in conjunction with the following which are hereby incorporated by reference:
1.Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (VAWA 2005), 42 U.S.C. § 14043 g and
§ 14045a;
2.Office of Justice Programs Financial and Administrative Guide, M7100.1;
3.Any other policy guidance which may be issued by the Office of Violence Against Women;
4.Council Program Announcement and Request For Proposals; and
5.Any other policy guidance which has been or may be issued by the Council.
These documents and further information regarding making application for these funds may be obtained by contacting
the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, 104 Marietta Street, N.W., Suite 440, Atlanta, Georgia 30303-2743, (404) 6571956, Fax (404) 657-1957, Email: grants.info@cjcc.ga.gov.

Rule 144-5-.09 Violence Against Women Formula Grants
CFDA # 16.588.
This information is submitted by the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, to further establish program policy and
administrative guidance consistent with federal guidelines in order to implement the Violence Against Women Grants
program authorized by Title IV of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, Pub. L. No 103-322, 108
Stat. 1796 (Sept. 12, 1994) (as amended by the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Prevention Act of 2000 and the Violence
Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, Public Law 109-162, January 5, 2006).
The purpose of this program is to make grants for use by states, Indian tribal governments, units of local governments and
nonprofit, nongovernmental victim services programs for the purpose of developing and strengthening effective law

enforcement and prosecution strategies to combat violent crimes against women, and to develop and strengthen victim
services in cases involving violent crimes against women.
This information should be used in conjunction with the following which are hereby incorporated by reference:
1.Title IV of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, Pub. L. No. 103-322, 108 Stat. 1796 (Sept. 12,
1994) (as amended by the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Prevention Act of 2000), as amended;
2.U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Violence Against Women Program Office Guidelines;
3.Office of Justice Programs Financial and Administrative Guide, M7100.1;
4.Any other applicable policy guidance which may be issued by the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs
in the future;
5.Council Program Announcement and Request for Proposals;
6.Council Administrative and Financial Compliance Guidelines; and
7.Any other policy guidance which has been or may be issued by the Council.
These documents and further information regarding making application for these funds may be obtained by contacting
the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, 104 Marietta Street, N.W., Suite 440, Atlanta, Georgia 30303-2743, (404) 6571956, Fax (404) 657-1957, Email: grants.info@cjcc.ga.gov.

Rule 144-5-.10 State Grant Programs
This rule supports the implementation of State Grant Programs as may be authorized and appropriated by the Georgia
General Assembly.
The specific criteria for eligibility and distribution of funds shall be detailed in the grant solicitation or request for proposals
issued by the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council. The solicitation or request for proposals may be obtained by
contacting the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, 104 Marietta Street, NW, Suite 440, Atlanta, Georgia 30303;
(404)657-1956; FAX (404)657-1957; or by visiting the Council's website at http://cjcc.ga.gov.

Chapter 144-6 ADOPTION OF RULES
Rule 144-6-.01 Adoption of Rules
(1) Right of Petition Established. Any interested person may petition the Council requesting the promulgation of a
rule or the amendment or repeal of a rule already in force, as contemplated in the Georgia Administrative
Procedure Act. (O.C.G.A. § 50-13-1.)
(2) Form of Petition. Each such petition should be filed with the Council in writing and state:
(a) The name and address of the petitioner;
(b) The full text of the rule requested to be amended or repealed, or the full text of the rule desired to be
promulgated;

(c) A paragraphed statement of the reasons such rule should be amended, repealed or promulgated,
including a statement of all pertinent and existing facts as to the petitioner's interest in the matter;
(d) Citations of legal authorities, if any, which authorize, support or require the action requested by the
petitioner. The petition must be verified under oath, by or in proper behalf of the petitioner.

(3) Proceeding on Petition. Upon receipt of the petition, the Chairperson or Director of the Council shall give the
petition due consideration and present it to the Council for determination. Within sixty days after receipt of a
petition, the Council shall inform the petitioner by mail of the decision reached, and may either decline to take
the action requested, stating its reasons for so declining, or initiate rulemaking in accordance with the Georgia
Administrative Procedure Act (O.C.G.A. § 50-13-1).

Rule 144-6-.02 Repealed
Rule 144-6-.03 Repealed
Rule 144-6-.04 Repealed
Rule 144-6-.05 Repealed

