INVESTIGATIVE DOCUMENT REQUIREMENTS
The following items outline the specific information needed from documents received from
investigative agencies (e.g., police/incident report, indictment, warrants, TPO, etc.). This information
is critical and is used by the Crime Victims Compensation Program to assist in moving a claim forward
for eligibility consideration.
1. Victim/Witness Name(s)
2. Identifying information for the Victim/Witness
a. At a minimum, the following identifying information must be included, if known, the date of
birth, race, and gender.
3. Dates/Approximate Dates
a. Date of crime
b. Date crime was reported to Law Enforcement or other legitimate authority
c. For child abuse/molestation cases, the last date of occurrence, if known, is needed (e.g.,
month/year, season of the year, etc.)
d. For missing victims, if deceased, the date the body was discovered.
4. Summary Information
a. Criminal Charges
b. General description of the incident
c. Injuries to each victim (e.g., shot in arm, two front teeth knocked out, punched in the
face and glasses were broken, etc.)
5. Law Enforcement Questionnaire (LEQ)/Prosecuting Attorney Questionnaire (PAQ)
If the following questions are not answered in an investigative document, then an LEQ/PAQ
is required.
a. Was a crime committed against the victim/witness?
b. Did the investigation reveal that the victim’s conduct contributed to the infliction of
his/her physical injury or financial hardship?
c. Has the victim cooperated with authorities?
*Please Note: Based on the nature of the crime, specific requests made by the
victim/claimant, or other information that is provided, additional documentation may be
requested, once the above information has been received and reviewed.
Statutory Authority:
§ 17-15-4. Powers of board
(a) The board shall have the following powers and duties:
(2) To request from the Attorney General, the Department of Public Safety, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, district attorneys,
solicitors-general, judges, county and municipal law enforcement agencies, and any other agency or department such assistance and data
as will enable the board to determine the needs state wide for victim compensation and whether, and the extent to which, a claimant
qualifies for an award. Any person, agency, or department listed in this paragraph is authorized to provide the board with the information
requested upon receipt of a request from the board. Any provision of law providing for confidentiality of records does not apply to a
request of the board pursuant to this Code section; provided, however, that the board shall preserve the confidentiality of any such
records received;

An Equal Opportunity Employer

