Besides the categorical caps
listed, are there any limits on the
assistance available?
We are the payer of last resort, the
victim must first exhaust funds from
other sources such as insurance, social
security, annual or sick leave, disability
insurance, workers' compensation,
unemployment, or funds from other
government agencies.
We only award compensation to those
who meet all of the program's eligibility
requirements.

WHAT WE DO
The Criminal Justice Coordinating Council administers the Georgia Crime Victims
Compensation Program, which helps victims and their families through the emotional
and physical aftermath of a crime by easing the monetary impact placed upon them by
providing financial benefits for expenses such as medical bills, loss of earnings, funeral
expenses, mental health counseling, and crime scene sanitization.

YOU MAY BE ELIGIBLE IF
You are physically injured as a result of a violent crime.
You personally witnessed or were threatened with a violent crime.
You were hurt helping a victim of a violent crime.
You are the parent or guardian of a person killed or injured as a result of a crime.
You are a dependent of a homicide victim who relied on the victim for support.
You did not participate in or were involved in the events that led up to the crime.

ELIGIBILITY TIMELINES
The victim/witness must have reported the crime to the proper authorities within 72
hours of the crime unless good cause is shown.
The victim/witness must file an application within 3 years of the crime unless good
cause shown (Note: A claim submitted 3 years after the victimization cannot be
considered for crimes occurring prior to July 1, 2014, unless it was a minor victim).

CATEGORICAL CAPS (FOR COVERED EXPENSES)
Medical/Dental Expenses – up to $15,000
Counseling Expenses – up to $3,000
Funeral Expenses – up to $6,000
Lost Wages - up to $10,000
Loss of Support – up to $10,000
Crime Scene Sanitization – up to $1,500
Only those who meet all of the eligibility requirements will be approved. The above
shows the maximum amounts that an eligible claimant may qualify for in each benefit
category (Please Note: The maximum program amount is $25,000 per victim).

Sexual Assault

Child Abuse

Human Trafficking

Assault

Domestic Violence

Kidnapping

Vehicular Homicide

Hit and Run

Child Pornography

Homicide

Child Exploitation

DUI/DWI

Who is Not Eligible for the Crime
Victims Compensation Program?
A victim of property crime.
A victim or witness committing a crime
or a victim or witness that is
incarcerated when the crime occurred.
A victim or witness who provoked or
consented to the events that lead to
the crime.
A victim or witness who does not
cooperate with law enforcement.
A victim or witness on probation or
parole due to a felony crime that
involves physical injury, serious mental
or emotional trauma, or death to
another person.

There may be other factors that are
not mentioned in this document that
might make you ineligible. You can
also visit our website at cjcc.ga.gov
for more information, or you can call
us at 404-657-2222 or 800-547-0060.

