Safe At Home | Georgia Secretary of State Skip to main content Safe At Home Georgia's Safe at Home is an address confidentiality program protecting survivors of domestic violence, assault, trafficking, and others at risk. Safe At Home Will Begin Accepting Applications on July 1, 2026 Apply A Message From Secretary of State Brad Raffensberger Your safety is our top priority. The Safe at Home Program was created to allow survivors of domestic violence, human trafficking, stalking, and sexual assault to reclaim their lives and protect themselves from being found through easily accessible public records. My office is committed to helping provide survivors with the tools they need to begin to rebuild their lives free of fear. While just one tool in the overall toolbox, I am proud to help Georgians move forward with the peace of mind they deserve, because I believe everyone should feel safe in their own home. ~ Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger Program Services The Georgia Safe at Home Program is an address confidentiality program that helps survivors of domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, stalking, or other eligible individuals whose safety may be compromised by public disclosure of their residential address. The program provides three main services: Address substitution: Participants use a designated address on all public records in lieu of their own. Their address is masked on all state and local public records. Mail forwarding: The Secretary of State’s Office forwards First-Class Mail to the participant’s confidential address. Voter Registration: Participants confidential address is sealed on voter rolls. Participants are eligible to vote in-person or by absentee ballot. The program was created by the Georgia General Assembly in 2024 through SB 324 and is codified under O.C.G.A. § 50-18-150 . Safe At Home Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance How To Apply Advocate Assistants Safe At Home Application Individuals must complete the application form, complete with a sworn statement. Apply Today Safe At Home Contact Information Georgia Safe at Home safeathome@sos.ga.gov 470-312-2766 Contact Georgia Secretary of State Address 214 State Capitol Atlanta, Georgia 30334 Phone 404-656-2881 Service Hours Mon - Fri 8:00am - 4:00pm Email Send Email Send Email How can I
help you today? Top