Crime Victims' Compensation Program Guidelines Department of Public Safety Quick Navigation Skip to Main Content MO.gov Governor Kehoe Find an Agency Online Services Mobile Menu Button Toolbar Links RSS News Feed Email us Watch Videos Connect with us on Linkedin Flickr Follow us on X Like us on Facebook Home Office of the Director Alcohol & Tobacco Capitol Police Fire Safety Highway Patrol SEMA Veterans Commission Gaming Commission Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Guidelines Related Links Help for Crime Victims NACVCB The purpose of these guidelines is to provide the user a reference tool for the Crime Victims' Compensation Program. The text addresses the eligibility requirements for compensation, the policy and procedures on awards and denials, and the issue of subrogation and restitution. This guideline is for reference and guidance only and is subject to modification and alteration by the Department without notice. However, it is a goal of the Program to update this guideline if a policy or legislative change occurs. Also, this guideline is not designed to be comprehensive, rather, a clarification on frequently raised questions. If you have any questions or comments concerning any aspect in this guideline, please call the Crime Victims' Compensation Program at (573) 526-6006. CREATION OF CRIME VICTIMS' COMPENSATION FUND AND ADMINISTRATION OF PROGRAM Created in 1981, the Missouri Crime Victims' Compensation Fund (referred to as the Fund) is governed by Chapter 595, RSMo, and is 	designed to financially assist victims of violent crime in paying for reasonable medical expenses, counseling expenses, funeral expenses, lost wages and loss of support. In death cases, surviving dependents may apply for loss of support if the victim was gainfully employed at the time of the crime. The Crime Victims' Compensation Program (referred to as the Program) is located within the Department of Public Safety. The Program is responsible for administering the Fund. POLICY AND PROCEDURE ON ELIGIBILITY WHO IS ELIGIBLE FOR COMPENSATION Eligibility for compensation from the Fund is set out in Section 595.020, RSMo. Those eligible to make a claim are: The victim; In the case of a sexual assault victim, a relative of the victim requiring counseling in order to better assist the victim in his recovery; and In the case of the death of the victim as a direct result of the crime: A dependent of the victim; Any member of the family who legally assumes the obligation, or who pays the medical or burial expenses incurred as a direct result thereof; and A survivor of the victim requiring counseling as a direct result of the death of the victim. A description of who is a victim, a relative, a survivor or a dependent is defined in Section 595.010, RSMo. The Program has a statutory duty to use these definitions in determining who is an eligible claimant. Section 595.010(28), RSMo, defines a victim as "a person who suffers personal  injury or death as a direct result of a crime. 
              . ." Personal injury is defined in Section 595.010(23), RSMo, as "physical, emotional, or mental harm or trauma resulting from the crime upon which the claim is based." In cases of sexual assault, in addition to the primary victim, a relative of the victim requiring counseling in order to better assist the victim in his recovery is eligible to make a claim. Section 595.010(26), RSMo, defines a relative as "the spouse of the victim or a person related to the victim within the third degree of consanguinity or affinity as calculated according to civil law." This includes parents, siblings, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, nephews and nieces, grandparents, great-grandparents, aunts and uncles. In cases where the crime results in death, a dependent, a family member who assumes financial responsibility for medical and burial expenses, and survivors are eligible claimants. Dependents, as defined in Section 595.010(8), RSMo, are a "mother, father, spouse, spouse's mother, spouse's father, child, grandchild, adopted child, illegitimate child, niece or nephew, who is wholly or partially dependent for support upon and living with, but shall include children entitled to child support but not living with, the victim at the time of his injury or death. . ." Under this statutory definition, the dependent, except for children of divorced parents entitled to child support, must be living with the victim. A parent who does not live with the homicide victim is not a dependent under the statute, and could not make a claim for loss of support based upon being a dependent. Section 595.020.1(3)(c), RSMo, allows a survivor of a homicide victim who requires counseling as a direct result of the death of the victim to make a claim. A survivor is defined in Section 595.010(27), RSMo, as "the spouse, parent, legal guardian, grandparent, sibling or child of the deceased victim of the victim's household at the time of the crime." A survivor must also reside with the homicide victim to make a claim for counseling expenses. THE CRIME UPON WHICH THE CLAIM IS BASED For purposes of the Crime Victims' Compensation Fund, a crime is defined in Section 595.010(5), RSMo, as: an act committed in this state which, regardless of whether it is adjudicated, involves the application of force or violence or the threat of force or violence by the offender upon the victim but shall include the crime of driving while intoxicated, vehicular manslaughter and hit and run; and provided, further, that no act involving the operation of a motor vehicle except driving while intoxicated, vehicular manslaughter and hit and run which results in injury to another shall constitute a crime . . . unless such injury was intentionally inflicted through the use of a motor vehicle. A crime shall also include an act of terrorism as defined in 18 U.S.C. Section 2331, which has been committed outside of the United States against a resident of Missouri. Injuries resulting from the crimes of driving while intoxicated, vehicular manslaughter, hit and run, and those accidents occurring from the intentional infliction of harm by use of a car are the only situations where an injury from a car is compensable. Crimes where only property is stolen or damaged are not compensable under this definition. Awarding a crime victims' compensation claim is an administrative process, not a criminal one. The Program reviews the police report, requests prosecutorial input, and uses any other applicable documentation to make an administrative decision to award compensation for a crime. In determining whether a compensable crime occurred, a lesser burden of proof applies than the criminal standard of beyond a reasonable doubt. According to Section 595.025.3(1), RSMo, an alleged offender does not need to be apprehended for the victim to be eligible. If the offender is convicted of the crime upon which the claim is based, proof of the conviction serves as conclusive evidence a crime was committed. A Missouri resident who is the victim of a crime in another state may be eligible for compensation. REQUIREMENTS FOR ELIGIBILITY OF APPLICANTS Behavioral Requirements In addition to the requirements that pertain to the kind of claimants and the type of crimes covered by the Program, every individual applicant must meet certain eligibility requirements. These requirements are based on the victim's own actions and fulfillment of filing requirements under the statute. Reporting the Crime Section 595.030.2, RSMo, requires a victim to report the crime to the proper authorities. In lieu of other records the claimant may provide a sworn statement by the applicant under paragraph (c) of subdivision (2) if section 589.663 that the applicant has good reason to believe that he or she is a victim of domestic violence, rape, sexual assault, human trafficking, or stalking, and fears further violent acts from his or her assailant. Cooperation by Victim A victim has a statutory duty to cooperate with law enforcement to be eligible for compensation. Section 595.015.4, RSMo, requires a victim, claimant or dependent to cooperate with law enforcement officials in the apprehension of the alleged offender unless the Department has found that the failure to cooperate was for good cause. The Program sends a Law Enforcement Verification form to the law enforcement agency where the police report was filed. This form requests a copy of the police report and information from the police department to assist the Program in determining whether the victim cooperated. Also, a Prosecutorial Input form is sent to the prosecuting attorney to assist the Program in determining whether or not restitution was ordered. Contributory Conduct by Victim Section 595.035.3, RSMo, requires the Department to determine whether the victim contributed to the infliction of the injury by consent, provocation, incitement or negligence. If contributory conduct exists, the Department may either reduce benefits or deny the claim. When examining contributory conduct on the part of the victim, the Department evaluates whether the victim could have reasonably avoided the incident. If a reasonable or prudent person would have avoided or removed themselves from the situation, the claim may be reduced or denied. Claimants who file a claim for injuries received while in the commission of an illegal act are not eligible to receive compensation. The Program reviews the police report to determine if the victim was in the commission of an illegal act at the time of the crime upon which the claim is based or if contributory conduct was present. Filing Requirements In addition to behavioral requirements, a victim or claimant must meet certain filing requirements as well. Filing for Compensation There is a statute of limitations on filing for compensation with the Crime Victims' Compensation Program. Under Section 595.025.2, RSMo, the application shall be filed within two years of the crime date, within two years of discovery. AWARDS AND DENIALS COSTS ELIGIBLE FOR REIMBURSEMENT FROM THE FUND The Fund must limit the eligible expenses to maintain its viability and to serve its purpose as a public, quasi-charitable fund. According to Section 595.030, RSMo, costs incurred by a victim or claimant eligible for compensation include medical expenses, counseling expenses, lost wages, funeral costs and loss of support. The Fund does not pay for pain and suffering. Section 595.035.2, RSMo, states that the Fund is a payor of last resort. This means that all other sources of payment must be utilized before compensation is made from the Fund. Health insurance, auto insurance settlements, Medicaid or Medicare and any other sources of payment available to the victim are considered to be collateral sources and are deducted from the total expense that may be eligible for reimbursement under the crime victim law. However, if a claimant has a health insurance but still has out-of-pocket expenses because of deductibles or co-payments, those out-of-pocket costs may be eligible for reimbursement. Note that life insurance is not considered a collateral source. MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF AWARDS Under Section 595.030, RSMo, the maximum compensation benefit is $25,000. In addition, there are limits placed on specific expenses. Funeral expenses are limited to $5,000. Lost wages can be reimbursed up to a maximum of $200 per week for crimes occurring prior to Aug. 28, 2015. For crimes occurring on or after Aug. 28, 2015, lost wages can be reimbursed up to $400 per week. All of these expenses are included within the statutory maximum benefit of $25,000. INDEPENDENT VERIFICATION PROCEDURE The Program determines the expenses eligible for compensation. Only those reasonable crime-related expenses for which the victim or claimant is being held financially responsible are considered for payment. Each expense submitted by the claimant is independently verified to determine the actual out-of-pocket loss. The Program must also determine any other possible sources of payment. Independent verification also includes the Program’s review of medical records when a long gap between dates of treatment occurs or when the victim requests lost wages. Rule 8 CSR 50-6.010(3)(F) stipulates that the claimant shall file current medical reports covering treatment, diagnosis and prognosis, including an estimate of any permanent injury impairing claimant’s ability to secure gainful employment. DISTRIBUTION OF AWARD The Program determines the method of compensation payment. Payment is made on a prorated basis between all the providers if the victim incurs expenses amounting to more than $25,000. Rule 8 CSR 50-6.010(11)(B) governs the payout of awards. DENIAL OF COMPENSATION The claim will be denied if the Program finds the victim or claimant fails to meet either a behavioral or filing requirement. The Program must deny a claim if it was made solely on expenses not compensable from the Fund or made for expenses eligible for payment from collateral sources. If the claimant fails to provide the Department with the requested information within 30 days and does not request an extension of time, the claim must be denied for failure to provide the necessary information. PROCEDURE FOR APPEALS Once a decision to deny the claim is made by the Program, the claimant has 30 days from the date of the denial letter to appeal the decision by submitting a written request for a hearing or by supplying the requested documentation or information. Once the Department receives written notice from the claimant requesting a hearing, the case is scheduled on the next available docket. First, a pre-conference is scheduled to determine the issues in dispute and discuss the Program's decision. If the issues cannot be resolved at that time, a formal hearing will be scheduled. The hearing will take place before the director per RSMO 595.036(1). SUBROGATION AND RESTITUTION Because the Crime Victims' Compensation Fund is a payor of last resort, any right of action accruing to the claimant to recover damages from the crime allows the state to recover payment made from the Crime Victims' Compensation Fund. If a victim or claimant receives restitution from any source for injuries or death resulting from the crime upon which the claim is based, the Program has a right of subrogation for the entire amount awarded to the claimant (RSMO 595.040(2). If a claimant initiates any legal proceeding to recover restitution or damages related to the crime, or if the claimant enters into negotiations to receive any proceeds in settlement of a claim, the claimant must give the Program written notice within 15 days of the filing of the action or entering into negotiations. When such notice is provided, an attorney's fee is allowed up to 15 percent of the amount awarded by the Crime Victims' Compensation Program (RSMO 595.040(3). CONCLUSION Each Crime Victims' Compensation staff member is assigned an area of the state and is responsible for the processing of claims in that area. Victims may contact the Program toll-free at (800) 347-6881 to determine the staff member assigned to their area. This document is only for guidance. If you have any questions about a particular case or need additional information, please contact the Crime Victims' Compensation Program. Crime Victims' Compensation Crime Victims' Compensation Home Forms & Applications Governance Other Helpful Links Programs Crime Victims’ Compensation (CVC) Office for Victims of Crime Sexual Assault Forensic Examination Program (SAFE) Child Physical Abuse Forensic Examination Program (CPAFE) Contact Department of Public Safety Crime Victims' Compensation P.O. Box 1589 Jefferson City, MO 65102-1589 Phone: (573) 526-6006 Email: cvc@dps.mo.gov