MICHAEL L. PARSON
Governor

Mailing Address: P.O. Box1589
Jefferson City, MO 65102-1589

SANDRA K. KARSTEN
· Director

Telephone: 573-526-6006
Toll Free: 800-347-6881
Fax: 573-526-4940
STATE OF MISSOURI
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
CRIME VICTIMS' COMPENSATION PROGRAM

COMPENSATION CHECKLIST
Use the checklist below for the specific compensation you are requesting. Please be advised
that additional information may be necessary at a later date in the application process.

Medical/Counseling Claims:
A11 medical/counseling bills should be submitted to your insurance, Medicaid, or Medicare
carrier first.
Submit itemized copies of all medical/counseling bills, plus copies of any paid receipts.
Submit any crime related prescription receipts. This can be obtained through a print out at your
pharmacy.
If you have injuries that require medication or replacement of medical equipment such as
glasses, dentures, etc.; send a copy of the prescription, the itemized bill or estimate, and copy
ofthe receipt if you have already paid.

Funeral Claims:
Submit an itemized copy of the funeral bill, plus copies of any paid receipts.
Submit a copy of the life insurance policy stating the primary beneficiary.

Loss of Earnings/Loss of Support Claims:
If you are applying for loss of earnings and are NOT self-employed, provide the 3 paystubs
immediately prior to the crime.
If you are applying for loss of earnings and ARE self-employed, provide a copy of the two
state and federal tax returns prior to the crime.
If you are applying for loss of support provide a copy of the Life Insurance Benefit Statement
and/or the Social Security Survivor's Benefit Statement for you and your children.
If you are applying for loss of support, please provide a copy of the dependent child's birth
certificate showing the deceased as a parent.
If you are applying for loss of support, please provide documentation showing guardianship
such as birth certificates (if you are the parent of the child) or court guardianship documents.

