Missouri Revisor of Statutes - Revised Statutes of Missouri,  RSMo Section 589.663 ☰ Revisor of Missouri Constitution Committee Publications Other Links Help / FAQ Appendices and Tables Title XXXVIII  CRIMES AND PUNISHMENT; PEACE OFFICERS AND PUBLIC DEFENDERS Chapter 589 < > • Effective -  28 Aug 2018, 3 histories 589.663. Program created, purpose, procedures. — There is created in the office of the secretary of state a program to be known as the "Address Confidentiality Program" to protect victims of domestic violence, rape, sexual assault, human trafficking, stalking, or other crimes who fear for their safety, as well as the safety of individuals residing in the same household as the victim, by authorizing the use of designated addresses for such victims, their minor children, and individuals residing with them.  The program shall be administered by the secretary under the following application and certification procedures: (1)  An adult person, a parent or guardian acting on behalf of a minor, or a guardian acting on behalf of an incapacitated person may apply to the secretary to have a designated address assigned by the secretary to serve as the person's address or the address of the minor or incapacitated person; (2)  The secretary may approve an application if it is filed with the office of the secretary in the manner established by rule and on a form prescribed by the secretary.  A completed application shall contain: (a)  The date the application was prepared, the applicant's signature, and the signature and registration number of the application assistant who assisted the applicant in applying to be a program participant; (b)  A designation of the secretary as agent for purposes of service of process and for receipt of first class mail, legal documents, and certified mail; (c)  A statement that the applicant has good reason to believe that he or she: a.  Is a victim or resides in the same household as a victim; and b.  Fears future harm; (d)  A mailing address where the applicant may be contacted by the secretary or a designee and the telephone number or numbers where the applicant may be called by the secretary or the secretary's designee; and (e)  One or more addresses that the applicant requests not be disclosed for the reason that disclosure will jeopardize the applicant's safety or increase the risk of violence to the applicant or members of the applicant's household; (3)  Upon receipt of a completed application, the secretary may certify the applicant as a program participant.  A program participant is certified for four years following the date of initial certification unless the certification is withdrawn by the applicant or cancelled by the secretary before that date.  The secretary shall send notification of an expiring certification and a renewal form to a program participant at least four weeks prior to the expiration of the program participant's certification.  The renewal need only be signed by the applicant and need not be made before an application assistant; (4)  The secretary shall forward first class mail, legal documents, and certified mail to the appropriate program participants; (5)  This section shall be liberally construed as to not hold omissions by the secretary against participants or applicants. ­­-------- (L. 2007 H.B. 583, A.L. 2016 H.B. 1562, A.L. 2018 H.B. 1461) (2019) Section which shields program participant actual residential address from disclosure is violated when dissolution judgment orders the disclosure of minor child's actual address who is residing with program participant.  Hannah v. Hannah, 568 S.W.3d 451 (Mo.App. W.D.). ---- end of effective  28 Aug 2018 ---- use this link to bookmark section  589.663 - All versions Effective End 589.663 8/28/2018 589.663 8/28/2016 8/28/2018 589.663 8/28/2007 8/28/2016 Click here for the Reorganization Act of 1974 - or - Concurrent Resolutions Having Force & Effect of Law In accordance with Section 3.090 , the language of statutory sections enacted during a legislative session are updated and available on this website on the effective date of such enacted statutory section. Other Information Recent Sections Editorials May Be Cited As Tables & Forms Multiple Enact Repeal & Transfer Definitions End Report Site changes Pictures Contact Other Links Legislative Research Oversight MOLIS Library MO WebMasters Missouri Senate MO.gov Missouri House Errors / suggestions - WebMaster@LR.mo.gov History and Fun Facts ©Missouri Legislature, all rights reserved.