Sexual Assault Forensic Examination (SAFE) Program
Administered by the Missouri Department of Public Safety, Office for Victims of Crime (10/2021)

The mission of the Missouri Department of Public Safety is to protect life and property by providing services
to all Missourians in cooperation with citizens, public safety agencies, and other public and private entities.
Through partnerships, professionalism, and adherence to core values, DPS strives to provide a safe and
secure Missouri for all citizens and visitors.

ELIGIBILITY

The Sexual Assault Forensic Examination (SAFE) Program provides
reimbursement to medical providers for the cost of gathering evidence during
a forensic exam, including anonymous exams, performed on patients who
have been victimized by sexual violence in Missouri.
Forensic exam charges should be billed to the SAFE Program as the primary
payer; however the charges may also be billed to the patient’s health
insurance carrier.
NOTE: Per Missouri statute section 595.220.6 RSMo, the patient should NOT
be billed for any forensic exam charges.

ALLOWABLE COSTS

Allowable reimbursements include charges for the hospital facility fee (ER
visit), the professional fee for the medical provider who performs the forensic
exam, and certain lab tests. Reimbursement for lab testing is dependent upon
the age of the patient and the type of test. See Unallowable Costs on page 2
for a list of costs unallowable through the SAFE Program.

PROCESS

Medical providers are responsible for submitting a Claim for Reimbursement
to the SAFE Program within 90 days of the forensic exam.

DOCUMENTATION

The required documentation should be completed at the time of the forensic
exam. Fillable .pdf versions of the SAFE Program Forms can be found at
https://dps.mo.gov/dir/programs/safe/. A Claim for Reimbursement must
include the following:
A SAFE Program Report (requires 2 signatures)—
1) the consent for the forensic exam by the patient, parent, guardian or
requesting agency, and
2) the signature of the medical provider who performed the forensic exam
A SAFE Procedural Checklist—
The procedural checklist is simply a recording of the various procedures
performed during the forensic exam.
An Itemized Billing Statement—
The billing invoice must include the patient information, the diagnosis codes,
date of service, a description of the service provided, and itemized forensic
examination charges, including current CPT codes.

1 of 2

COMMON
BILLING
CODES

For billing purposes, the most common diagnosis codes are:

T74.21XA
T74.22XA
T76.21XA
T76.22XA
Z04.41
Z04.42

UNALLOWABLE
COSTS

Adult sexual abuse, confirmed
Child sexual abuse, confirmed
Adult sexual abuse, suspected
Child sexual abuse, suspected
Encounter for exam and observation following alleged adult rape
Encounter for exam and observation following alleged child rape

Other charges incurred for injuries or for medications are considered medical
treatment and are allowed to be billed to the patient. Medical treatment
means the treatment of all injuries and health concerns relating directly from a
patient’s sexual assault or victimization including, but not limited to the
following:

Testing for STD’s or HIV unless victim is under age 14
Any antibiotic prophylaxis
Emergency contraception
Wound care, laceration repair
Surgical procedures
Outpatient follow-up

Treatment/prophylaxis of STD’s or HIV
Pregnancy testing unless under age 14
Tetanus immunization
Fractures/sprain treatment
Discharge instruction counseling

In addition to any possible medical treatment costs, the patient may require counseling or may incur lost wages as a
result of the violent crime. The medical provider should refer the patient to the Crime Victims’ Compensation
(CVC) Program, 573-526-6006 or 1-800-347-6881.

CRIME VICTIM COMPENSATION PROGRAM OVERVIEW
The CVC Program financially assists people who have sustained physical, emotional, or mental harm or trauma
resulting from violent crime occurring in Missouri. If the eligibility requirements are met, potential benefits may
include costs associated with the patient’s crime-related medical, dental, and counseling. If the victim was gainfully
employed at the time of the crime, they may also be eligible for lost wages. If a victim was killed as a direct result
of the crime, CVC may also help the victim’s family members by assisting with the cost of funeral and burial
expenses as well as loss of support to the victim’s dependents if the victim was gainfully employed at the time of
the crime.
To be eligible for assistance with CVC, the crime must be reported to the proper authorities. In addition to law
enforcement, in the case of a sexual offense, filing a report of the offense to the proper authorities may include,
but not be limited to, the filing of the report of the forensic examination by the appropriate medical provider with
the prosecuting attorney of the county in which the alleged incident occurred, receiving a forensic examination, or
securing an order of protection.
Eligibility through the CVC Program is not guaranteed and cannot be determined until a completed application is
submitted for review and the Program has completed a thorough assessment of the crime and expenses for which
compensation is being sought.
For more information about either the SAFE or CVC Programs, please visit the Crime Victims’ Compensation (CVC)
Program website, call 573-526-6006 or 1-800-347-6881 or email cvc@dps.mo.gov.

2 of 2

