Department of Public Safety | Crime Victims' Compensation Program Department of Public Safety Quick Navigation Skip to Main Content MO.gov Governor Kehoe Find an Agency Online Services Mobile Menu Button Toolbar Links RSS News Feed Email us Watch Videos Connect with us on Linkedin Flickr Follow us on X Like us on Facebook Home Office of the Director Alcohol & Tobacco Capitol Police Fire Safety Highway Patrol SEMA Veterans Commission Gaming Commission Crime Victims' Compensation Crime Victims’ Compensation (CVC) The Crime Victims' Compensation Program provides financial assistance to people who sustained traumatic injuries resulting from certain violent crimes. We know that injuries can be more than just physical. The CVC Program can cover trauma that leads to emotional and mental health issues. Sexual Assault Forensic Examination Program (SAFE) The Sexual Assault Forensic Examination (SAFE) Program covers the cost of gathering, collecting and preserving evidence during the forensic examination for victims of sexual crimes that occurred in Missouri. While SAFE is the “payor of first resort” for these fees, health insurance carriers may be billed secondary. NO forensic fees may be billed to the patient. However, the SAFE program does not cover any medical treatment that may be required due to the sexual assault. Child Physical Abuse Forensic Examination Program (CPAFE) The Child Physical Abuse Forensic Examination (CPAFE) Program was established to cover the cost of the professional fee for SAFE-CARE providers who: perform a forensic examination to collect and preserve evidence on children under 18 years of age who have been a victim of physical abuse in Missouri; or provide a case review of previously gathered photographs, medical records, or investigative information provided by a multi-disciplinary team on children under 18 years of age who have been a victim of physical abuse in Missouri. Medical professionals are required to bill the Child Physical Abuse Program as a “payor of first resort” for reasonable charges incurred during the forensic examination. Professional fee charges shall not be billed to other payment resources, such as the patient’s parent or guardian, health insurance, Medicaid, or Medicare. Charges for medical procedures, facility fees, supplies, laboratory/radiology tests, court preparation or court testimony are not eligible for reimbursement. For more details, please follow the link to the program statute and rules. To request a training for your agency or your community, please submit your request to CVC@dps.mo.gov Related Links Missouri Attorney General’s Office MOVANS National Payment Resources for SAFE Exams Safe At Home Sexual Assault Forensic Examination Tracking System (SAFETrack) Victim Services Crime Victims' Compensation Crime Victims' Compensation Home Forms & Applications Governance Other Helpful Links Programs Crime Victims’ Compensation (CVC) Office for Victims of Crime Sexual Assault Forensic Examination Program (SAFE) Child Physical Abuse Forensic Examination Program (CPAFE) Contact Department of Public Safety Crime Victims' Compensation P.O. Box 1589 Jefferson City, MO 65102-1589 Phone: (573) 526-6006 Email: cvc@dps.mo.gov