Crime Victims’ Compensation (CVC) Program
Administered by the Missouri Department of Public Safety, Office for Victims of Crime (10/2021)

The mission of the Missouri Department of Public Safety is to protect life and property by providing services
to all Missourians in cooperation with citizens, public safety agencies, and other public and private entities.
Through partnerships, professionalism, and adherence to core values, DPS strives to provide a safe and
secure Missouri for all citizens and visitors.

ELIGIBILITY

ALLOWABLE COSTS

COLLATERAL
SOURCES

DOCUMENTATION

The CVC program provides compensation to eligible individuals and their
family members who are victims of certain violent crimes. Basic criteria
required to determine eligibility include:
• Crime must have occurred in Missouri;
• Crime must be reported to the proper authorities;
• Victim/claimant must cooperate with law enforcement;
• Victim must not have contributed to their injury
• Victim must not have been in the commission of a crime;
• Application must be received within two (2) years of the date of the crime
or discovery of the crime;
• An arrest or conviction of a suspect is not required.
Allowable benefits may include medical, funeral and counseling expenses, lost
wages or loss of support for eligible victims and their family members.
Professional service providers are paid directly for eligible crime service. If
victim/claimant has paid out-of-pocket they may be reimbursed, if eligible.
The maximum benefit levels are $5,000 for funeral expenses and up to
$40O/per week for lost wages. The total maximum benefit is $25,000.
CVC is a payor of last resort. Compensation is only available for crime related
financial losses not covered by other collateral sources such as:
 Insurance
 Donations
 Restitution
 Workers' Compensation
 Medicaid/Medicare
 Paid sick or annual leave
 Civil Suit (personal injury or wrongful death)
 Crowdsourcing (fundraisers)

Submitting the application and required attachments is the first step in the
CVC process. The primary documentation required to apply includes:
CVC Application, must be signed by the Victim/Claimant
Crime Related Medical, Dental, Counseling and/or Funeral Bill
Employment Information, if applicable
Death Certificate, if applicable

1 of 2






BEFORE
APPLYING

Review the CVC Guidelines, Application and Instructions
Complete the entire CVC application
Attach all required documents
Make sure you the application date is within 2 years of crime date or the
date of discovery of the crime

UNALLOWABLE
REQUESTS

 Rent/Mortgage
 Food/Clothing
 Utilities
 Identity Theft
 Tuition
 Investment Scheme Losses
 Pain and Suffering
 Stolen/Damaged Property
*NOTE: There are other unallowable requests, this list does not include all unallowable costs.

APPLICATION
INTAKE &
REVIEW

Applications are reviewed upon receipt. The victim/claimant will receive
written acknowledgement of receipt. The first step is to determine eligibility.
CVC initiates requests for supporting documentation from third parties (i.e.,
law enforcement, medicaid, prosecutors, if applicable, and others to support
the claim. CVC may contact any provider to verify actual out-of-pocket
expenses and request documentation from collateral sources, if applicable.
After supporting information is received, CVC reviews the claim(s) and all
supporting documentation. If the claim(s) are determined to be ineligible, a
denial letter outlining the ineligibility reason is sent to the victim/claimant.
If the claim(s) is determined eligible, CVC will send the victim/claimant a letter
with further instructions related to any offer of compensation. To accept the
offer, the victim claimant must sign the offer and return it to initiate payment.

CRIME VICTIM COMPENSATION PROGRAM OVERVIEW
The CVC Program financially assists people who have sustained physical, emotional, or mental harm or trauma
resulting from violent crime occurring in Missouri. If the eligibility requirements are met, potential benefits may
include costs associated with the patient’s crime-related medical, dental, and counseling. If the victim was gainfully
employed at the time of the crime, they may also be eligible for lost wages. If a victim was killed as a direct result
of the crime, CVC may also help the victim’s family members by assisting with the cost of funeral and burial
expenses as well as loss of support to the victim’s dependents if the victim was gainfully employed at the time of
the crime.
To be eligible for assistance with CVC, the crime must be reported to the proper authorities. In addition to law
enforcement, in the case of a sexual offense, filing a report of the offense to the proper authorities may include,
but not be limited to, the filing of the report of the forensic examination by the appropriate medical provider with
the prosecuting attorney of the county in which the alleged incident occurred, receiving a forensic examination, or
securing an order of protection.
Eligibility through the CVC Program is not guaranteed and cannot be determined until a completed application is
submitted for review and the Program has completed a thorough assessment of the crime and expenses for which
compensation is being sought.
For more information about either the SAFE or CVC Programs please visit the Crime Victims’ Compensation (CVC)
Program website, call 573-526-6006 or 1-800-347-6881 or email cvc@dps.mo.gov.

2 of 2

