Rules of

Department of Public Safety
Division 30—Office of the Director
Chapter 12—Forensic Examinations
Title

Page

11 CSR 30-12.010 Payments for Sexual Assault Forensic Examinations ....................................3
11 CSR 30-12.020 Payments for Child Physical Abuse Forensic Examinations ............................4

JASON KANDER

Secretary of State

(3/31/16)

CODE OF STATE REGULATIONS

1

Chapter 12—Forensic Examinations

Title 11—DEPARTMENT OF
PUBLIC SAFETY
Division 30—Office of the Director
Chapter 12—Forensic Examinations
11 CSR 30-12.010 Payments for Sexual
Assault Forensic Examinations
PURPOSE: This rule sets out the reporting
and billing procedures for appropriate medical providers who conduct sexual assault
forensic examinations, commonly known as
SAFE exams. This rule sets out the requirements for the appropriate medical provider in
submitting a SAFE exam claim to the Department of Public Safety for payment. This rule
also establishes the criteria by which SAFE
exam expenses are paid and sets out the maximum payments for SAFE exams performed at
an emergency room and the maximum payments for SAFE exams performed at a clinic.
(1) For purposes of this section, the following
terms mean:
(A) “Appropriate medical provider,” any
licensed nurse, physician, or physician assistant, and any institution employing licensed
nurses, physicians, or physician assistants,
provided that such licensed professionals are
the only persons at such institution to perform
tasks under the provisions of this section;
(B) “Child abuse medical resource centers,”
medical institutions affiliated with accredited
children’s hospitals or recognized institutions
of higher education with accredited medical
school programs that provide training, support, mentoring, and peer review to Sexual
Assault Forensic Examination – Child Abuse
Resource and Education (SAFE-CARE)
providers in Missouri;
(C) “Sexual assault forensic examination
child abuse resource education network” or
“SAFE-CARE network,” a network of SAFECARE providers and child abuse medical
resource centers that collaborate to provide
forensic evaluations, medical training, support, mentoring, and peer review for SAFECARE providers for the medical evaluation of
child abuse victims in this state to improve
outcomes for children who are victims of, or
at risk for, child maltreatment by enhancing
the skills and role of the medical provider in a
multidisciplinary context;
(D) “SAFE-CARE provider,” a physician,
advanced practice nurse, or physician’s assistant licensed in this state who provides medical diagnosis and treatment to children suspected of being victims of abuse and who
receives—
1. Missouri-based initial intensive training regarding child maltreatment from the
SAFE-CARE network;
JASON KANDER

Secretary of State

(3/31/16)

11 CSR 30-12

2. Ongoing update training on child maltreatment from the SAFE-CARE network;
and
3. Peer review and new provider mentoring regarding the forensic evaluation of
children suspected of being victims of abuse
from the SAFE-CARE network;
(E) “Evidentiary collection kit,” a kit used
during a forensic examination that includes
materials necessary for appropriate medical
providers to gather evidence in accordance
with the forms and procedures developed by
the attorney general for forensic examinations;
(F) “Forensic examination” or “Sexual
Assault Forensic Examination (SAFE) exam,”
an examination performed by an appropriate
medical provider on a victim of an alleged
sexual offense to gather evidence for the evidentiary collection kit or using other collection procedures developed for victims who
are minors;
(G) “Medical treatment,” the treatment of
all injuries and health concerns resulting
directly from a patient’s sexual assault or victimization;
(H) “Laboratory fees,” those laboratory
fees associated with a forensic examination of
a child age thirteen (13) or under or those laboratory fees associated with lab tests which
the appropriate medical provider deems necessary to determine whether the victim had been
drugged;
(I) “Emergency forensic examination,” an
examination of a person under fourteen (14)
years of age that occurs within five (5) days
of the alleged sexual offense; and
(J) “Non-emergency forensic examination,”
an examination of a person under fourteen
(14) years of age that occurs more than five (5)
days after the alleged sexual offense.

completely and legibly filled out. The appropriate medical provider shall sign and date the
report. If the report is incomplete, unsigned,
or not dated, the claim may be denied.
(5) To qualify for payment, all claims shall
include the Sexual Assault Forensic Examination Program Report, the Sexual Assault
Forensic Examination Checklist, and an itemized billing statement.
(6) For billing purposes, all appropriate
charges for the sexual assault forensic examination shall be itemized with each billable procedure, service, or supply described, including
the accompanying International Classification
of Disease (ICD-9) and Current Procedural
Terminology (CPT) code(s). Written explanation and reasoning may be required to justify
certain codes.
(7) To qualify for payment on claims for a
non-emergency forensic exam, physicians,
advance practice nurses (APRN), or physician
assistants (PA) must meet at least one (1) of
the following criteria:
(A) Child Abuse Pediatrics Sub-board eligibility or Certificate of Added Qualification;
or
(B) A SAFE-CARE provider.
(8) To qualify for payment on claims for a
non-emergency forensic exam, licensed nurses must meet the following criteria:
(A) Pediatric Sexual Assault Nurse Examiners (SANE) certification (if performing exams
on children age thirteen (13) or younger);
(B) Meet all SAFE-CARE training requirements; and
(C) Review of the exam by a health care
provider who is a SAFE-CARE provider.

(3) Claims for payment of forensic examination expenses shall be submitted to, and
received by, the Missouri Department of Public Safety, Sexual Assault Forensic Examination (SAFE) Program within ninety (90) days
from the date of the forensic examination.

(9) Emergency forensic exams performed by
an appropriate medical provider including
advance practice nurses (APRN) will be reimbursed provided that the incident meets the
following criteria:
(A) The alleged assault may have resulted
in the transfer of trace biological material; or
(B) The alleged assault may have placed
the child at risk for pregnancy; or
(C) The child complains of pain in the genital or anal area related to the disclosure of
sexual abuse; or
(D) There is evidence or complaint of
anogenital bleeding or injury.

(4) Claims shall be made on the Sexual
Assault Forensic Examination Program Report
form approved by the Missouri attorney general. The appropriate medical provider must
ensure that all lines of the report form are

(10) Payment shall not exceed—
(A) Nine hundred dollars ($900) for forensic exams performed in an emergency room,
including all costs associated with the facility
and the appropriate medical provider fee.

(2) The victim or the victim’s parent or
guardian shall consent in writing to the examination. If the victim is a minor, then a representative from the requesting agency which
is referring the victim for the exam, such as
law enforcement or Children’s Division, may
sign for consent of the forensic exam.

CODE OF STATE REGULATIONS

3

11 CSR 30-12—DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

1. When the exam is performed by a
physician, physician assistant, or an advanced
practice nurse in an emergency room, payment shall not exceed—
A. Five hundred forty dollars ($540)
for the emergency room fee; and
B. Three hundred sixty dollars ($360)
for the provider fee if submitted separately;
2. When the exam is performed in an
emergency room by an appropriate medical
provider other than a physician, physician
assistant, or an advanced practice nurse, payment shall not exceed—
A. Six hundred forty dollars ($640)
for the emergency room fee if submitted separately; and
B. Two hundred sixty dollars ($260)
for the provider fee if submitted separately;
(I) If a non-emergency sexual
assault forensic examination is performed on a
child age thirteen (13) or younger by a
provider under this subsection who is not a
SAFE-CARE provider and the exam is
reviewed by a SAFE-CARE provider, then the
provider will receive one hundred and ten dollars ($110) and the SAFE-CARE provider will
receive one hundred and fifty dollars ($150).
(II) If a non-emergency sexual
assault forensic examination is performed on
a child age thirteen (13) or younger by a
provider under this subsection who is not a
SAFE-CARE provider and the exam is not
reviewed by a SAFE-CARE provider, then
payment will not issue;
(B) Six hundred fifty dollars ($650) for
forensic exams performed in a clinic, including all costs associated with the facility and
the appropriate medical provider.
1. When the exam is performed by a
physician, physician assistant, or an advanced
practice nurse in a clinic, payment shall not
exceed—
A. Two hundred ninety dollars ($290)
for the clinic fee if submitted separately; and
B. Three hundred sixty dollars ($360)
for the provider fee if submitted separately;
and
2. When the exam is performed in a
clinic by an appropriate medical provider
other than a physician, physician assistant, or
an advanced practice nurse, payment shall not
exceed—
A. Three hundred ninety dollars
($390) for the clinic fee if submitted separately; and
B. Two hundred sixty dollars ($260)
for the provider fee if submitted separately;
(I) If a non-emergency sexual assault
forensic examination is performed on a child
age thirteen (13) or younger by a provider
under this subsection who is not a SAFECARE provider and the exam is reviewed by
4

a SAFE-CARE provider, then the provider
will receive one hundred and ten dollars
($110) and the SAFE-CARE provider will
receive one hundred and fifty dollars ($150).
(II) If a non-emergency sexual
assault forensic examination is performed on
a child age thirteen (13) or younger by a
provider under this subsection who is not a
SAFE-CARE provider and the exam is not
reviewed by a SAFE-CARE provider, then
payment will not issue; and
(C) Two hundred dollars ($200) for any
laboratory fees associated with the forensic
examination, whether the forensic examination is conducted at an emergency room or
clinic.
(11) The billing statement must include an
itemization of the charges incurred while conducting the forensic examination, including,
if applicable, the itemized laboratory fees.
(12) For the purposes of billing the Sexual
Assault Forensic Examination Program,
claims shall not include charges for medical
procedures that are not part of the SAFE
exam. The SAFE Program shall not pay for
any portions of the itemized bill that are not
part of the SAFE exam. The SAFE Program
shall not pay for any laboratory fees associated with a SAFE exam except for qualified laboratory fees.
(13) Only one (1) forensic examination per
victim per sexual offense may be reimbursed.
(14) For a forensic examination to be eligible
for reimbursement by the SAFE Program—
(A) The victim of the alleged sexual offense
must be a Missouri resident; or
(B) The alleged sexual offense must have
occurred in Missouri.
(15) The department, at its discretion, may
require additional information regarding the
forensic examination for auditing purposes.
AUTHORITY: section 595.220, RSMo Supp.
2013.* Emergency rule filed Dec. 7, 2011,
effective Dec. 17, 2011, expired June 13,
2012. Original rule filed Dec. 7, 2011, effective Aug. 30, 2012. Amended: Filed Feb. 2,
2015, effective July 30, 2015.
*Original authority: 595.220, RSMo 2009, amended 2011.

11 CSR 30-12.020 Payments for Child
Physical Abuse Forensic Examinations
PURPOSE: This rule sets out the requirements of submitting a claim for payment,
establishes the criteria by which expenses are
CODE OF STATE REGULATIONS

Division 30—Office of the Director

paid, and sets out the maximum payment for
SAFE-CARE providers who perform or provide a case review of a forensic examination
of a person under eighteen (18) years of age
who is an alleged victim of physical abuse.
(1) For purposes of this section, the following
terms mean:
(A) “Child abuse medical resource centers” - medical institutions affiliated with
accredited children’s hospitals or recognized
institutions of higher education with accredited medical school programs that provide
training, support, mentoring, and peer review
to SAFE-CARE providers in Missouri;
(B) “SAFE-CARE provider” - a physician,
advanced practice nurse, or physician’s assistant licensed in this state who provides medical diagnosis and treatment to children suspected of being victims of abuse and who
receives—
1. Missouri-based initial intensive training regarding child maltreatment from the
SAFE-CARE network;
2. Ongoing update training on child maltreatment from the SAFE-CARE network;
and
3. Peer review and new provider mentoring regarding the forensic evaluation of
children suspected of being victims of abuse
from the SAFE-CARE network;
(C) “Sexual assault forensic examination
child abuse resource education network” or
“SAFE-CARE network” - a network of SAFECARE providers and child abuse medical
resource centers that collaborate to provide
forensic evaluations, medical training, support, mentoring, and peer review for SAFECARE providers for the medical evaluation of
child abuse victims in this state to improve
outcomes for children who are victims of or
at risk for child maltreatment by enhancing
the skills and role of the medical provider in
a multidisciplinary context;
(D) “Child physical abuse forensic examination” - a physical examination performed
on an alleged victim of physical abuse who is
under eighteen (18) years of age by a SAFECARE provider to collect and preserve evidence;
(E) “Case Review” - a written record
review or evaluation of previously gathered
photographs, medical records, including, but
not limited to, radiology and laboratory tests,
medical chart documentation, and investigative information including, but not limited to,
information provided by a multidisciplinary
team, Missouri Children’s Division, law
enforcement, or juvenile authorities; and
(F) “Department” - the Missouri Department of Public Safety.
(3/31/16)

JASON KANDER

Secretary of State

Chapter 12—Forensic Examinations

(2) All claims for reimbursement of a child
physical abuse forensic examination shall be
submitted to the department’s Child Physical
Abuse Forensic Examination Program as a
payor of first resort within ninety (90) days of
the child physical abuse forensic examination.
All claims for reimbursement of case reviews
shall be submitted within one hundred eighty
(180) days after the child physical abuse forensic examination. The department shall only
reimburse professional fees to SAFE-CARE
providers who perform a child physical abuse
forensic examination or professional fees to
SAFE-CARE providers who provide a case
review of a child physical abuse forensic
examination. The department shall not reimburse providers for medical procedures, facility fees, supplies, laboratory/radiology tests,
court preparation, or court testimony.
(3) All claims for reimbursement shall be
made on the Child Physical Abuse Forensic
Examination form. The SAFE-CARE provider
must ensure that all fields of the claim form
are completely and legibly filled out. If the
claim form is incomplete or unsigned, the
claim may be rejected or denied.
(4) The Child Physical Abuse Forensic Examination form must include all applicable signatures, including consent or authorization for
the child physical abuse forensic examination
as well as the signature of the SAFE-CARE
provider who performed the child physical
abuse forensic examination and/or the signature of the SAFE-CARE provider who performed the case review, if applicable.
(5) All claims for reimbursement shall include
an itemized billing invoice which includes
appropriate charge amounts for the child physical abuse forensic examination or case review
including the accompanying current International Classification of Disease (ICD) code(s).
Written explanation and reasoning may be
required to justify certain codes.
(6) The itemized billing statement must
include at least one (1) of the following ICD
diagnosis codes, as applicable:
(A) With forensic findings—
1. Child abuse, unspecified - 995.50
2. Child physical abuse - 995.54
3. Shaken infant syndrome - 995.55
4. Other child abuse and neglect 995.59; or
(B) With no forensic findings—
1. Observation following other inflicted
injury - V71.6
2. Abuse and neglect - V71.81.
(7) Maximum reimbursement for eligible
JASON KANDER

Secretary of State

(3/31/16)

11 CSR 30-12

claims shall be—
(A) Seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for a child physical abuse forensic examination; or
(B) Four hundred dollars ($400.00) for a
case review of the child physical abuse forensic examination.
(8) Professional fee charges for the child
physical abuse forensic examination or case
review shall not be billed to other payment
resources, such as the patient’s parent or
guardian, health insurance, Medicaid, or
Medicare.
(9) If the same SAFE-CARE provider performs both the child physical abuse forensic
examination and the case review on the same
child, such provider cannot be reimbursed for
both, but may be reimbursed for one (1) if all
criteria are met.
(10) Only one (1) child physical abuse forensic examination per report of physical abuse
on an alleged victim may be reimbursed and
no reimbursement will be made for any subsequent exam on the same victim. Reimbursement will not be made for more than one (1)
case review per report of physical abuse and
no reimbursement will be made for any subsequent case review for the same victim.
(11) In the event that the child has been the
victim of both physical and sexual abuse, the
department will reimburse one (1) forensic
examination performed per report of abuse,
whether sexual, physical, or both. A claim for
reimbursement may be submitted to only one
(1) program, either the Child Physical Abuse
Forensic Examination Program or the Sexual
Assault Forensic Examination (SAFE) Program.
(12) For a claim to be eligible for reimbursement by the Child Physical Abuse Forensic
Examination Program—
(A) The alleged physical abuse incident
must have occurred in Missouri; or
(B) The alleged victim of physical abuse
must be a Missouri resident.
(13) The department, at its discretion, may
require additional information regarding the
child physical abuse forensic examination or
case review for auditing purposes.
AUTHORITY: section 334.950, RSMo Supp.
2014.* Emergency rule filed Nov. 2, 2015,
effective Nov. 12, 2015, expired May 9, 2016.
Original rule filed Nov. 2, 2015, effective
April 30, 2016.
*Original authority: 334.950, RSMo 2010, amended 2014.

CODE OF STATE REGULATIONS

5

