G.S. 15C-4 § 15C-4.  Filing and certification of applications; authorization card. (a)	An individual who wants to participate in the Address Confidentiality Program shall file an application with the Attorney General with the assistance of an application assistant. Any of the following individuals may apply to the Attorney General to have an address designated by the Attorney General to serve as the substitute address of the individual: (1)	An adult individual. (2)	A parent or guardian acting on behalf of a minor when the minor resides with the individual. (3)	A guardian acting on behalf of an incapacitated individual. (b)	The application shall be dated, signed, and verified by the applicant and shall be signed by the application assistant who assisted in the preparation of the application. (c)	The application shall contain all of the following: (1)	A statement by the applicant that the applicant is a victim of domestic violence, sexual offense, stalking, or human trafficking and that the applicant fears for the applicant's safety or the safety of the applicant's child. (2)	Evidence that the applicant is a victim of domestic violence, sexual offense, stalking, or human trafficking. This evidence may include any of the following: a.	Law enforcement, court, or other federal or state agency records or files. b.	Documentation from a domestic violence program if the applicant is alleged to be a victim of domestic violence. c.	Documentation from a religious, medical, or other professional from whom the applicant has sought assistance in dealing with the alleged domestic violence, sexual offense, or stalking. d.	Documentation submitted to support a victim of human trafficking's application for federal assistance or benefits under federal human trafficking laws. (3)	A statement by the applicant that disclosure of the applicant's address would endanger the applicant's safety or the safety of the applicant's child. (4)	A statement by the applicant that the applicant has or will confidentially relocate in North Carolina. (5)	A designation of the Attorney General as an agent for the applicant for purposes of service of process and the receipt of first-class mail or certified or registered mail. (6)	The mailing address and telephone number where the applicant can be contacted by the Attorney General. (7)	The address that the applicant requests not to be disclosed by the Attorney General that directly relates to the increased risk of domestic violence, sexual offense, or stalking. (8)	A statement as to whether there is any existing court order or court action involving the applicant related to divorce proceedings, child support, child custody, or child visitation and the court that issued the order or has jurisdiction over the action. (9)	A statement by the applicant that to the best of the applicant's knowledge, the information contained in the application is true. (10)	A recommendation of an application assistant that the applicant have an address designated by the Attorney General to serve as the substitute address of the applicant. (d)	Upon the filing of a properly completed application, the Attorney General shall certify the applicant as a program participant. Upon certification, the Attorney General shall issue an Address Confidentiality Program authorization card to the program participant. The Address Confidentiality Program authorization card shall remain valid for so long as the program participant remains certified under the Program. (e)	Applicants shall be certified for four years following the date of filing unless the certification is withdrawn or canceled prior to the end of the four-year period. A program participant may withdraw the certification by filing a request for withdrawal acknowledged before a notary with the Attorney General. A certification may be renewed by filing an application containing the information required by G.S. 15C-3 with the Attorney General at least 30 days prior to expiration of the current certification. (2002-171, s. 1; 2007-547, s. 7.)