Victim Compensation Program | NC DPS Victim Compensation Program Español Provider Resources Resources Are Available to Help Victims of Violent Crime and Their Families Since 1987, the state Victim Compensation Program has reimbursed survivors of violent crime and families of homicide victims for eligible expenses including medical care, counseling, lost wages and funeral services. The application process is free and confidential. Learn about eligibility and start an application below. Questions? Call (800) 826-6200. Accepted Expenses ✓ Medical ✓ Counseling ✓ Dental or orthodontic ✓ Burial and funeral expenses ✓ Crime scene cleanup ✓ Lost wages ✓ Domestic violence loss of household support Not Accepted X Property damage or loss X Lost or stolen money X Replacement of property taken as evidence X Court fees and expenses X Pain and suffering X Utilities X Mortgage or rent X Travel What financial support is available? Am I eligible? I already started an application in the online portal. How do I log back in? What if I am a victim of a sexual offense and I receive a bill for my forensic exam? What paperwork do I need to submit with my application? Do I need to file a claim with my insurance? What happens after I submit my application? How can applicants avoid delays? What is the maximum repayment? What other resources are available? What do I need to know about working with law enforcement? How should I work with medical billing departments? What financial support is available? Victim Compensation Services may reimburse people who suffer medical expenses and lost wages as a result of being an innocent victim of a crime committed in North Carolina. Victims of rape, assault, domestic violence, drunk driving and pedestrian hit and run, as well as the families of homicide victims, are eligible to apply for financial help. Am I eligible? Victims of violent crime who answer YES to the following questions may be eligible for financial assistance. Victims do not need to be residents of North Carolina. Did the crime occur in North Carolina? Was it reported within 6 months? Did the victim sustain a direct injury – physical or psychological? Did the victim lose income or face expenses for eligible services in the first year after the crime? Was the victim NOT committing a crime at the time of injury? In most cases, you are eligible for compensation if you apply no more than two years after the day the crime occurred. There are two exceptions that would extend this time period: the unreported sexual assault of a minor child. the discovery of a missing person who is found to have been a victim of homicide. I already started an application in the online portal. How do I log back in? Use the username and password you created to log into your account . You will be able to complete an application that you previously saved, as well as check the status of an application that has already been submitted. What if I am a victim of a sexual offense and I receive a bill for my forensic exam? If you receive a bill for the cost of a forensic medical exam, please contact our office. By law, medical providers cannot bill you or your insurance for the forensic exam. They must send the bill to the Rape Victim Assistance Program . What paperwork do I need to submit with my application? Submit a law enforcement report to support the application. Public copies of the law enforcement report may be requested from the law enforcement agency that responded to the crime. Individuals must provide proof of payment to be reimbursed. If proof of payment is not submitted, service providers may be reimbursed directly. Medical and counseling services Submit itemized bills from certified providers of medical or counseling services. Lost wages To claim lost wages, you must have been employed on the date of the incident. If you have an employer, you should submit a signed physician’s letter on the provider’s letterhead that details the dates and reasons you were advised to be out of work, an official employer letter on company letterhead that confirms your approved absence and your last paystub before the incident. If you are self-employed or are an independent contractor, you’ll need a signed physician’s letter on the provider’s letterhead and a copy of your signed federal tax return from the year before the crime. Loss of household support due to domestic violence Unemployed victims who are married to the offender and who have dependent children may submit a law enforcement report and third-party confirmation of eligible children. Funeral expenses Submit a copy of the death certificate, itemized funeral bill and the law enforcement report. If the case is approved, our office will contact the funeral home to verify the balance.  If the expenses have not been paid, the payment will be made directly to the funeral home. Crime scene cleanup Submit the itemized bill from a certified biohazard cleanup company. Services may include repair or replacement of doors, locks and windows, as well as cleanup of blood stains. Dental services You may submit a proposed treatment plan on your dentist’s letterhead. The plan must list the services to be provided and the date services will be completed. Treatment must be completed within one year of the crime, and the provider must submit an itemized bill first to the patient’s insurance. The Office of Victim Compensation will then pay 66 2/3% of the remaining charges, which will be considered paid in full. The provider cannot bill the patient for the remainder. Do I need to file a claim with my insurance? Yes. Like other compensation programs, North Carolina is a payer of last resort, meaning victims should first submit expenses to private or public insurance companies. Deductibles and co-pays may be reimbursed. What happens after I submit my application? All services provided by the Office of Victim Compensation Services are free and confidential. Our staff reviews each application and may contact you to provide referrals or to request additional information. Applicants must respond to questions and provide additional documentation as requested. From the time an application is received, the average processing time is between three to six months. Applicants will receive a letter outlining next steps. When the claim is approved, payments will be sent directly to medical providers, or, if a victim has already paid bills – for example, prescription copays – our office will repay the victim directly. If a claim is denied, applicants will have 60 days to appeal the decision with the Administrative Office of the Courts. How can applicants avoid delays? Complete, sign, and date the application. Include a copy of the law enforcement report or warrant that lists the victim’s name. Provide itemized bills resulting from the incident. Provide proof of payment made towards any of the itemized bills by the victim, third parties, or insurance companies. Cooperate with requests from our office and from law enforcement. What is the maximum repayment? Up to $45,000 for victims of violent crime Up to $10,000 for burial and funeral expenses for homicide victims What other resources are available? Child Advocacy Centers of North Carolina (CACNC) 336-886-4589 www.cacnc.org Legal Aid of N.C. Inc. 1-866-219-5262 www.legalaidnc.org North Carolina Coalition Against Domestic Violence 919-956-9124 www.nccadv.org North Carolina Coalition Against Sexual Assault 919-871-1015 www.nccasa.org North Carolina Victim Assistance Network 800-348-5068 www.nc-van.org NC Statewide Automated Victim Assistance and Notification 1-877-NCSAVAN (627-2826) www.ncsavan.org NC Department of Adult Corrections Victim Support Services 1-866-719-0108 www.dac.nc.gov What do I need to know about working with law enforcement? How should I work with medical billing departments? How to Apply Click the ‘Start an Application’ button and create an account. Log into the portal. Use the dropdown in the upper right corner to select a language. Fill out the profile and application forms. Call our office if you have questions. Review, sign and submit your application SVG Start an Application Need help? Call (800) 826-6200 If you prefer to apply by mail, you may download and print a paper form . Mail your application to: Office of Victim Compensation Services 4232 Mail Service Center Raleigh, NC 27699-4232