Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) | WV Secretary of State Skip to main content An Official West Virginia Government Website State Agency Directory | Online Services | Phone Directory Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) Address Confidentiality Program The West Virginia Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) is a program designed to help victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking and human trafficking do business with government agencies and other entities without risking disclosure of their home address. This program prevents abusers or potential abusers from using public records as a resource to find their victims. A participant in the program can use the provided substitute address in place of a real home address to receive mail, register to vote, DMV transactions, and enroll children in school. The Address Confidentiality Program is not a crisis center or direct service agency, rather, it is a tool for victims of abuse to use as part of their overall safety plan. Please use the topics below to find additional information. You can contact the office directly at (866) 767-8683 and ask for the ACP Manager or email acp@wvsos.gov . Select a Topic Back to topic navigation Program Specifications What services does the ACP offer? The program is designed for two purposes: To provide a first-class mail forwarding service at no charge to a participant. To provide a substitute address for use when interacting with state and local agencies, which will prevent abusers or potential abusers from using public records as a resource to find their victims. How does the program work? After an applicant becomes a program participant, they are issued an authorization card. That card has the designated post office box address that is provided by the Secretary of State's Office. The address on the card becomes their legal mailing address. Their first-class mail will be forward, at no cost, from the Secretary of State's Office within 5 business days. (Packages, magazines and third-class mail will not be forwarded.) Program participants need to use the authorization card anytime they are doing business with a state or local agency that requests their address for government transactions. The ACP enables participants to use the substitute address to meet the address requirements for most state and local government agencies. Participants may use the ACP substitute address for: West Virginia driver's licenses or ID cards Applying for and receiving child support Enrolling their children in public school Registering to vote and voting How do you apply? Participants do not apply directly to the Address Confidentiality Program. Application is made in person at a local domestic violence, sexual assault or victim service program located throughout the state by an approved application assistant. Enrollment of the program participant is good for four years as long as the participant abides by the requirements of the program. The application process involves meeting with a victim service professional who can help the potential participant determine whether ACP should be a part of the their overall safety plan, explain the program services, explain the potential participant's responsibilities and assist with the completion of the application materials. Who must accept the designated address? Any and all state and local government agencies and the courts of West Virginia must accept the ACP address as a program participant's address. There are exemptions and exclusions, contact ACP for more information. Back to topic navigation Participant Eligibility Who is eligible for the program? In order to be eligible a person must: Be a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking or human trafficking. Have relocated within 30 days or plan to relocate to an address unknown to the perpetrator in the near future. Not have created any government records with their new address. Be a resident of West Virginia or about to become a resident of West Virginia. Be at least 18 years old or a parent or guardian acting on behalf of a minor or incapacitated person. Be willing to designate the Secretary of State as their agent to receive legal documents and first-class mail. Be able to manage with a possible 5 day mail delay (mail first comes to the Address Confidentiality Program and is then forwarded). How do you apply? Participants do not apply directly to the Address Confidentiality Program. Application is made in person at a local domestic violence, sexual assault or victim service program located throughout the state by an approved application assistant. The application process involves meeting with a victim service professional who can help the potential participant determine whether ACP should be a part of the their overall safety plan, explain the program services, explain the potential participant's responsibilities and assist with the completion of the application materials. Providing the participant abides by the requirements, enrollment in the program is effective for 4 (four) years. You can download the application from our site: ACP Program Participant Application (PDF) (opens in a new tab) . Important Things to Remember: By signing the application, the applicant affirms, under penalty of perjury that all of the information on the form is true and accurate, and they have read and understand the checklist of responsibilities. Once an application is processed and the applicant becomes a participant, they are issued an authorization card. A participant must present their authorization card to an agency when requesting use of the substitute address. The ACP is not a stand-alone program, it is designed to be part of an overall safety plan. The ACP does not provide counseling or legal advice. The ACP does not allow participants to escape legal obligations. Who must accept the designated address? Any and all state and local government agencies and the courts of West Virginia must accept the ACP address as a program participant's address. There are exemptions and exclusions, contact ACP for more information. Back to topic navigation Application Assistant The Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) depends upon people like you who want to make a difference and volunteer to become Application Assistants. An Application Assistant is a domestic violence or sexual assault advocate who has been designated by the respective agency or nonprofit program, and trained, accepted and registered by the Secretary of State. A victim of violence may only become a participant in the ACP program through an Application Assistant's referral, so you will be vital to the process of protection. How to become an Application Assistant State or local agencies, law enforcement offices and nonprofit agencies that provide counseling or shelter to victims of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking can apply to the Secretary of State's Office to become enrolling agents. These agencies then designate employees to receive training and become Application Assistants. Responsibilities of an Application Assistant As an Application Assistant, you will: Know the Address Confidentiality Program laws and rules Determine whether your client qualifies for the program Determine whether or not the ACP would help your client's overall safety plan Explain the program services and participant responsibilities Assist the client with completing and filing application materials Keep each client's real address, application and supporting materials confidential Make sure that the client understands the limits of the program, and that it is only one part of their overall safety plan Qualifications for being an Application Assistant To become an application assistant, you must have the following credentials and knowledge about the program: Qualifying Credentials: An Application Assistant is an employee of a state or local agency, or a nonprofit program that provides counseling, referral, shelter or other specialized service to victims of domestic abuse, rape, sexual assault, or stalking. These employees have shown relevant qualifications to work with these victims. The employing agency has designated the duties of Application Assistant to the person registering. No Crime Record: An Application Assistant must certify that they have never been convicted of a crime involving the molestation of children, nor ever been convicted of being a child predator. False Statements: The Application Assistant must certify as part of the registration process that all information provided on the form is correct under penalty of perjury. Length of time: The Application Assistant's registration is valid for two years unless terminated sooner. Program certification expires unless a renewal is submitted before expiration date. Not Confidential: The Application Assistant's participation in the ACP is not confidential. If the ACP manager is asked, he or she can confirm or deny the participation of an individual in the program. Employment status: The Application Assistant is not an employee or agent of the State of West Virginia or the Secretary of State's office. Non-Discrimination: An Application Assistant must never discriminate against potential participants based on race, creed, color, national origin. Cancellation Provision: An application assistant can be cancelled for violation of any of the statements of agreement put forth in the application. To participate in the next training, please submit an application (PDF) (opens in a new tab) to the ACP and we will notify you of upcoming sessions. Back to topic navigation Governing Code and Rule The Address Confidentiality Program is governed by W. Va. Code §48-28A (opens in a new tab) which was passed into law in 2007. The Legislative rule, 153CSR37 (PDF) (opens in a new tab) , first became effective on May 6, 2009 and was amended on May 2, 2013. Back to topic navigation Program Applications Applications to become an Application Assistant can be submitted at any time. Upon receipt, the program manager will contact you regarding scheduled trainings. Potential participants in the program must work with a registered Application Assistant to submit an application. Remember: The Mail Release Agreement form must be included with the Program Participant Application . Please select the application form you require from the dropdown list below: Select Application Application Assistant Registration (PDF) (opens in a new tab) Program Participant Application (PDF) (opens in a new tab) Mail Release Agreement Form (PDF) State Capitol Building Charleston , WV 25305 United States Contact Us Sign Up for News Updates One Stop Business Portal WV Code WV Tax Department Get in Touch Privacy, Security and Accessibility | WV.gov | USA.gov | © 2026 State of West Virginia