Coverage Limits for Service Providers Skip Nav Coverage Limits for Service Providers Coverage Limits Coverage Limits for Service Providers Show All Sections Medical Service Providers Show The Victims of Crime Program may pay up to $35,000 for medical and medically related expenses caused by a crime, including but not limited to: Medical services including hospitalization, surgery, ambulance transportation, and prescribed medications. Medically necessary items such as eyeglasses, hearing aids, chiropractic treatment, physical therapy, dentures and prosthetic devices lost, stolen, or broken during the crime or that become necessary due to the crime. Medical Bills Medical bills should be submitted with a VOCP Voucher and must contain: Patient’s name and address Date(s) of service Type(s) of service(s) provided (Itemization detailing CPT codes and diagnosis codes) Billed amount Provider’s license number, federal tax identification number (FEIN or SSN), business address, telephone number, signature or signature stamp, and billing date. Payment of any bill submitted may be subject to verification by the victim or other independent verification prior to payment. Patient’s name and address Date(s) of service Type(s) of service(s) provided (i.e., itemization detailing CPT codes and diagnosis codes) Billed amount Provider’s license number, federal tax identification number (EIN or SSN), business address, telephone number, signature or signature stamp, and billing date. Payment of any bill submitted may be subject to verification by the victim or other independent verification prior to payment. Medical Service Reimbursement Rates Generally, medical expenses are paid at the Workers Compensation fee schedule as adopted by the Nevada Division of Industrial Insurance Regulation. Other fee schedules or discounts may apply as determined by policies governing the VOCP. Dental Service Providers Show The VOCP may pay up to $35,000 for treatment of dental, myofacial, temporomandibular, and other conditions and injuries caused by a crime, including but not limited to: Repair or replacement of broken or damaged teeth and dentures Diagnostic x-rays Prescriptions Cleaning (if necessary to provide crime-related dental procedures) Dental Bills Dental bills should be submitted with a VOCP Voucher and must contain: Patient’s name and address Date(s) of service Type(s) of service(s) provided (CPT or HCPCS codes detailing all treatment or proposed treatment are required) HCPCS (HealthCare Common Procedure Coding System) codes Charges for each procedure Total charges Provider’s name, license number, federal tax identification number (EIN or SSN), business address, telephone number, signature or signature stamp, and billing date. Payment of any bill submitted may be subject to verification by the victim, or other independent verification prior to payment. Dental Service Reimbursement Rates VOCP pays 75 percent of the amount billed (subject to review of usual and customary rates). Pre-Authorized Approval for Treatment Dentists may be able to obtain preauthorized approval for treatment. Dentists must submit a pre-treatment estimate on an approved American Dental Association (ADA) Claim Form to the VOCP for review. The VOCP will review the estimate to determine if the treatment is crime-related and may request additional information, such as dental records, prior to preauthorization of payment. The VOCP will only issue payment for preauthorized treatment after services have been provided. Contact our vendor, Cost Containment Strategies, Inc., at (702) 433-3145 or by email at support@voc-net.com with questions. Mental Health Providers Show The VOCP pays up to $5,000 in mental health counseling for qualified victims. Any licensed mental health service provider can serve victims who are approved applicants with the VOCP. Once an eligible victim goes to a licensed mental health provider for treatment and the provider submits a bill to the VOCP, the provider is listed in our system as a provider of services. To speed processing, please include verification of licensure and a completed IRS Form W-9 with the first bill submitted to the VOCP. Mental Health Bills Mental Health bills should be submitted with a VOCP Voucher and must contain: Patient's name and address Date(s) of service Type(s) of service(s) provided ( CPT Codes are required ) Billed amount Provider’s license number, federal tax identification number (FEIN or SSN), business address, telephone number, signature or signature stamp, and billing date Provider’s credentials must be documented on the bill (i.e. MD, PhD, LCSW, MFT, ASW, Intern) Payment of any bill submitted may be subject to verification by the victim or other independent verification prior to payment. Accepted Types of Mental Health Providers The following mental health providers are eligible for reimbursement at the listed rates: License Type Reimbursement Fee Licensed Psychiatrist (MD) $125.00 Licensed Psychologist (PhD) $100.00 Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW) $90.00 Marriage Family Therapist (MFT) $90.00 Associate Social Worker (ASW) $90.00 Licensed Group Therapy $45.00 Licensed Intern $45.00 Crime Scene Cleanup Providers Show The VOCP pays up to $5,000 in Crime Scene Cleanup costs for qualified victims. Crime Scene Cleanup bills should be submitted with a VOCP Voucher Form and must contain: Victims/Applicants name and address Date(s) of service Type(s) of service(s) provided Billed amount Provider’s license number, federal tax identification number (EIN or SSN), business address, telephone number, signature or signature stamp, and billing date Payment of any bill submitted may be subject to verification by the victim or other independent verification prior to payment. Funeral and Burial Service Providers Show The VOCP pays up to $5,000 for a deceased victim’s funeral and burial expenses. The VOCP may reimburse any individual who pays funeral and burial expenses. The person responsible for paying for the victim’s funeral arrangements should file the application for funeral and burial benefits. The VOCP cannot accept applications filed directly by a service provider such as a mortuary, funeral home, or cemetery. Funeral Expenses Not Covered Some funeral/burial expenses that are not reimbursable are: Costs of banquets or wake Food or beverages Floral Arrangements Coroner's charges A pre-purchased funeral or grave Finance or interest charges Funeral and Burial Service bills should be submitted with a VOCP Voucher Form and must contain: Victims/Applicants name and address Date(s) of service Type(s) of service(s) provided Billed amount Provider’s license number, federal tax identification number (EIN or SSN), business address, telephone number, signature or signature stamp, and billing date Payment of any bill submitted may be subject to verification by the victim or other independent verification prior to payment. Chiropractic Services and Physical Therapy Providers Show The VOCP pays up to $5,000 for Chiropractic treatment and/or Physical Therapy treatment. Chiropractic and Physical Therapy bills should be submitted with a VOCP Voucher and must contain: Patient's name and address Date(s) of service Type(s) of service(s) provided Billed amount Provider’s license number, federal tax identification number (EIN or SSN), business address, telephone number, signature or signature stamp, and billing date Payment of any bill submitted may be subject to verification by the victim or other independent verification prior to payment. Medical Equipment or Supply Vendors Show The VOCP pays up to $2,500 in medical equipment and medical supplies for qualified victims. Medical equipment and medical supply bills should be submitted with a VOCP Voucher Form and must contain: Victims/Applicants name and address Date(s) of service or delivery Type(s) of service(s) or equipment provided (HCPCS Codes are required) Billed amount Provider’s license number, federal tax identification number (EIN or SSN), business address, telephone number, signature or signature stamp, and billing date Payment of any bill submitted may be subject to verification by the victim or other independent verification prior to payment. Scroll to Top