Confidential Address Program Skip Nav Confidential Address Program About the Confidential Address Program The Nevada Confidential Address Program (CAP) is a program that helps victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking and/or stalking from being located by the perpetrator through public records. The program provides a fictitious address and confidential mail forwarding services to individuals and families across Nevada. History of the Program CAP was established during the 1997 Legislative session in Senate Bill 155 authored by Senator Mark James. The program accepted its first participant in 1998. Nevada was the second state in the nation to provide this tool to the victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. The program was modeled after the State of Washington's Address Confidentiality Program that was established in 1991. Effective October 9, 2017, Senate Bill 25 of the 2017 Legislative session transferred the administration of CAP to the Division of Child and Family Services How the Program Works CAP was established to assist victims fleeing abusive situations and attempting a fresh start for themselves and their children. The program began when it became clear that in far too many cases, victims were being physically located through public records. CAP is simple and has two basic parts: A fictitious mailing address and confidential mail forwarding program, and Confidential voter registration records CAP participants are granted the use of a fictitious mailing address, which is maintained by the Division of Child and Family Services. When victims enter into business relationships with state and local agencies, the use of the fictitious address both maintains the victims' confidentiality and relieves those agencies of the difficult and costly responsibilities of maintaining confidential records. In this way, CAP participants are at a reduced risk for being tracked using state and local public records. The second part of the program provides for the protection of voter registration records. To be effective, CAP participation must be one part of a victim's long-term, personal security strategy. Participants enrolled in the program use the fictitious address instead of their real address. The fictitious address is to be used instead of a person's home, work or school address. CAP accepts all First Class, registered, certified and election mail for the participants and forwards to her/his real address at no cost. Am I Eligible? All of the eligibility criteria must be met to apply to the program. Eligibility criteria for applicants: a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking and/or stalking; has specific evidence showing that the adult, child or incompetent person has been a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking before the filing of the application; an adult, or a parent or a guardian acting on behalf of an incompetent person. How Do I Enroll? Applicants do not enroll or apply directly with the Nevada Confidential Address Program. Any person interested in applying to the program must meet in person with a CAP Certified Advocate. Certified Advocates are located throughout the state in agencies and non-profit programs that provide counseling, referral, shelter, or assistance to victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking and stalking. To find a Certified Advocate near you: Locate a CAP Certified Advocate in Nevada Call the Confidential Address Program at 775-684-5707 or Toll Free at 888-432-6189 Email the Confidential Address Program at NVCAP@dcfs.nv.gov CAP Certified Advocates will Explain what the program does; Explain participant responsibilities while enrolled in the program; Work with the victim/survivor to incorporate CAP into her/his overall safety plan; Assist the applicant in completing the application; Review the contents of the application; Advise the Program Officer, in writing, whether it believes specific evidence showing that the applicant has been a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking or stalking has been provided in the application; and Forward the application to the Program Officer for their approval or disapproval. Enrollment Authorization Program staff reviews all completed applications. If an application is approved, program participants are enrolled for four years. All authorized participants are issued a Nevada Confidential Address Authorization Card and a new participant welcome packet explaining how to use the fictitious address effectively with government agencies. Applicants are not authorized to use CAP fictitious address until they receive her/his welcome packet that includes the authorization card and letter. Contact Us For additional program information or discuss how to apply: Toll Free: 888-432-6189 Local: 775-684-5707 Fax: 775-687-9017 Email: nvcap@dcfs.nv.gov Nevada Confidential Address Program PO Box 2743 Carson City, NV 89702 Scroll to Top