Frequently Asked Questions - CA Victim Compensation Board Skip to content Frequently Asked Questions HOME » For Victims » Frequently Asked Questions English | Arabic | Armenian | Chinese (Simplified) | Chinese (Traditional) | Farsi | Hindi | Hmong | Khmer | Korean | Lao | Punjabi | Russian | Spanish | Tagalog | Thai | Vietnamese These are the answers to the questions CalVCB gets most often. Need an answer you don’t see here? Contact us at 800-777-9229 or info@victims.ca.gov . On this page: Eligibility Expenses Applying Appeals Eligibility Who is eligible? To be eligible for compensation, victims must be: A California resident at the time of the crime, or A non-resident victimized in California. The crime must involve: Physical injury, Threat of physical injury, Death, or Emotional injury, in some cases. Victims must: Cooperate with police and court officials to arrest and prosecute the offender. Exceptions may apply for crimes involving domestic violence, human trafficking, or sexual assault. Cooperate with CalVCB staff Not have been involved in events leading to the crime Not have committed a felony at the time of the crime File the application within the time limits. Victims can submit an application within seven years of the crime, or seven years after the victim knew or discovered that an injury or death occurred because of the crime. Victims who are 21 years old or younger have until their 28th birthday to apply. What crimes does CalVCB cover? Crimes covered by CalVCB include but are not limited to: Assault with a deadly weapon Battery Child abduction Child abuse Child endangerment and abandonment Child sexual assault Criminal threats Domestic violence Driving under the influence Elder abuse Hate Crimes Hit and run Homicide Human trafficking Kidnapping Murder Neglect Rape Robbery Sexual assault Sexual battery Stalking, online or in person Vehicular manslaughter Other crimes that result in physical injury or a threat of physical injury to the victim What if the crime occurred outside of California? A victim should file for victim compensation in the state where the crime occurred in addition to filing with CalVCB. CalVCB will verify the out-of-state application. If the victim’s expenses are not covered by that program, CalVCB may be able to help. What if I need financial help right away? You can request emergency help in certain situations. CalVCB may approve immediate help based on the level of hardship and need. Note this need on your application in the emergency award section and submit any bills with your application. Expenses What expenses are eligible for reimbursement? Funeral and burial Medical and dental treatment Mental health treatment or counseling Mental health counseling for minors who witness a violent crime Round-trip mileage costs to medical, dental, or mental health appointments Veterinary fees or replacement costs for a guide, signal, or service dog Income loss up to 30 days for the parent or legal guardian of a minor victim who is hospitalized or dies Income loss if the victim was disabled as a direct result of the crime. Victims can receive this benefit for up to five years following the date the crime occurred. If the victim was permanently disabled, income loss may be approved for more than five years. Support loss for dependents of a victim who is disabled or dies as a direct result of the crime Loss of income for up to two years, if the crime is human trafficking Job retraining Relocation Residential security installation or improvement Home or vehicle modifications for a victim who was permanently disabled Crime scene cleanup What expenses are not eligible for reimbursement? Some expenses are not paid by CalVCB. Examples include property damage, court fees, and legal fees. Applicants must request reimbursement within three years of the service date. If bills are received later, CalVCB cannot pay. When will CalVCB not issue payment? CalVCB will not issue payment if: The application for compensation is not approved. The applicant did not apply within the time limits. A bill is submitted without proper documentation. The expense is not covered by the program. The cost is more than the program payment limits. Other possible reimbursement sources have not been used. The service provider requests payments directly but is not registered with CalVCB. CalVCB cannot issue payment while a victim is: In a correctional institution. On parole, probation, or post-release community supervision for a violent felony. Required to register as a sex offender. What are the limits on compensation? There are limits to what CalVCB can pay. The most CalVCB may pay per approved application is $70,000. (For applications filed 2001-2017, the most CalVCB may pay is $63,000.) There are limits to what CalVCB may pay for some services. See Compensation Benefit Reference Guide for a complete list. What if I get reimbursements from other sources? By law, CalVCB can only pay bills that are not covered by other sources. These other sources include: Medical, dental, or vision insurance Public benefit programs like Medi-Cal, unemployment insurance, or disability benefits Private insurance (auto, home, and/or life) Workers’ compensation benefits Court-ordered restitution Civil lawsuit recoveries Employer benefits Applicants are responsible for telling CalVCB about all possible reimbursement sources. If an applicant is paid later by these sources, the applicant must repay CalVCB. Crowdfunding money (for example, GoFundMe) is not considered a reimbursement source, but CalVCB cannot pay for expenses that were already paid for with crowdfunding donations. Do I have to pay CalVCB back if another source pays? Yes. CalVCB can only pay victims for expenses with no other possible reimbursement source. CalVCB has the right to be paid back if another source becomes available after payments are made. Applying How do I apply for compensation? You can apply online, by paper form, or through the help of an advocate. What are the time limits for filing an application? The time limits for filing an application are: Within seven years of the crime, or Seven years after the minor victim turns 21, or Seven years from when the victim knew or could have discovered that an injury or death occurred as a direct result of the crime. Some applications filed later than this may be considered. File a Late Consideration Form if that is the case. The filing deadline may be extended if there is good cause.  This includes: A recommendation from the prosecuting attorney. It must state that the victim cooperated in the arrest and prosecution of the offender. Events during the prosecution or punishment of the offender led to more losses for the victim. The nature of the crime is such that late reporting of the crime is reasonable and excusable. Family members affected by the same crime may also file an application. They can be approved after CalVCB approves a victim’s application. Appeals Do I have the right to appeal? You have a right to appeal if CalVCB denies an application or payment for an expense. You must file the appeal within 45 days of the date the Board mailed the notice to deny the application or expense. If you provide new information, CalVCB may reconsider the denial. If the issues on appeal cannot be overcome, CalVCB will send you an official letter that includes your options. This includes requesting a hearing. CalVCB does not hold hearings about denials of emergency awards. If you do not agree with the Board’s final decision, you may file a Petition for a Writ of Mandate in California Superior Court. How do I file an appeal? You may use the CalVCB appeal form or write a letter. Explain why CalVCB should approve the application or expense. Include any supporting documentation. Then sign, date, and mail the form or letter to: CalVCB Attn: Appeals P.O. Box 350 Sacramento, CA 95812-0350 How does the appeal process work? CalVCB will review all the information in your file. If the issues on appeal cannot be overcome, CalVCB will send you the Hearing Officer’s recommendation. This will inform you of your hearing options in writing. If you choose an oral hearing, you can select to appear via the following: Video or Telephone via Zoom In-person in Sacramento CalVCB will inform you in writing of the day and time of your hearing, and directions on how to appear. If you want a different hearing date, you must contact CalVCB in writing and give a reason for the change. You must show good cause to change the hearing date. If you choose to submit more documents: You will have 30 days to send materials that show why CalVCB should approve the application or expense. You do not need to resubmit documents you already provided. The Board will consider all documents in your file and send you a final decision in writing. If you choose to do nothing: The Hearing Officer’s recommendation will be adopted by the Board as a final decision. Exit site × Google™ Translate Disclaimer The California Victim Compensation Board (CalVCB) website uses Google™ Translate to provide automatic translation of its web pages. This translation application tool is provided for purposes of information and convenience only. Google™ Translate is a free third-party service, which is not controlled by CalVCB. CalVCB is unable to guarantee the accuracy of any translation provided by Google™ Translate and is therefore not liable for any inaccurate information or changes in the formatting of the pages resulting from the use of the translation application tool. The web pages currently in English on the CalVCB website are the official and accurate source for the program information and services CalVCB provides. Any discrepancies or differences created in the translation are not binding and have no legal effect for compliance or enforcement purposes. If any questions arise related to the information contained in the translated website, please refer to the English version. Ok × Please install the Google Toolbar Google Translate is not support in your browser. To translate this page, please install the Google Toolbar (opens in new window) .