What Is Covered - CA Victim Compensation Board Skip to content What Is Covered HOME » For Victims » What Is Covered If you’re eligible for compensation, CalVCB can pay for your recovery expenses. But we only reimburse for expenses not covered by another source. Here are the types of expenses we pay for, and those we don’t. On this page: Eligible expenses Non-eligible expenses Limits Eligible expenses CalVCB reimburses for the following expenses: Medical and dental treatment Mental health treatment or counseling Funeral and burial Income loss up to five years, if the crime disabled the victim. If the victim is permanently disabled, they may be reimbursed for longer. Income loss up to two years if the crime is human trafficking Support loss for dependents of a victim who is injured or dies Up to 30 days income loss for the parent or legal guardian of a minor victim who is hospitalized or dies Job retraining Home or vehicle modifications for a victim left permanently disabled Home security installation or improvement Relocation Crime scene clean-up Veterinary fees or replacement costs for a guide, signal, or service dog Round trip mileage costs to medical, dental, or mental health appointments Mental health counseling for minors who witness a violent crime Download the Compensation Benefit Reference Guide for a complete list of eligible expenses. Non-eligible expenses CalVCB cannot reimburse applicants for the following expenses: Personal property losses, except for medically necessary items like eyeglasses and hearing aids Expenses related to prosecuting a suspect Compensation for pain and suffering Expenses submitted more than three years after they are incurred. Exceptions are: When the victim is still liable for the debt at the time the expense is submitted to CalVCB, or The victim already paid the expense Expenses incurred while a person is*: On parole, probation, or post-release community supervision for a violent felony Incarcerated Required to register as a sex offender * This does not make a person ineligible, but it does stop payment for expenses incurred during the period above. Limits There are limits to what CalVCB pays, even for eligible expenses. Dollar limits The most CalVCB can reimburse a victim for is $70,000. For applications filed from January 1, 2001 to January 1, 2017, the limit is $63,000. Service limits Limits apply to some services. Medical We reimburse medical expenses: At the Medicare rate for services covered by Medicare At 75% of the billed amount for services not covered by Medicare At the Medicare rate for durable medical equipment (DME) At 80% for cosmetic surgery, prosthetics, hearing aids, and eyeglasses Dental We reimburse dental expenses: At 75% of the amount billed, or According to the Explanation of Benefits from your insurance Dentists can request pre-approval for treatment. Mental health We have requirements and limits for mental health services: A Mental Health Billing Intake form is required for claimants initiating treatment on or after December 15, 2022. A Treatment Plan must be filled out at the beginning of treatment and keep in the claimants file unless one of the five criteria items to submit the form are identified. The Additional Treatment Plan (ATP) should be completed when the claimant is eight (8) sessions from reaching their authorized session limit. The complete ATP must be submitted within 90 days after the date a bill for sessions that exhaust the authorized session limit is submitted to CalVCB. See more details on our Mental health services page. Other caps CalVCB has a cap on reimbursement for: Funeral and burial Relocation Some other services also have limits. See Compensation Benefit Reference Guide for a complete list. Limits by kind of victim Direct victims are eligible for compensation for all the covered expenses listed above. Derivative victims are people affected by a relative or loved one being victimized. They can be compensated for some of these expenses, including: Mental health services Funeral and burial Support loss Wage loss Medical expenses for a direct victim who dies Crime scene cleanup Home security improvements, if the victim lived with them Payor of last resort CalVCB is a payor of last resort. This means CalVCB pays only for expenses that aren’t reimbursed by any other source. Applicants must seek payments from other sources before seeking payment from CalVCB. These include: Medical, dental, or vision insurance Public benefit programs Examples: MediCal, unemployment insurance, or disability benefits Auto insurance Workers’ compensation benefits Court-ordered restitution Civil lawsuit recoveries Applicants are responsible for telling CalVCB about all reimbursement sources for their losses. If an applicant was paid later by these sources, the applicant must repay CalVCB . Related info Who is eligible → How to get compensated → Exit site × Google™ Translate Disclaimer The California Victim Compensation Board (CalVCB) website uses Google™ Translate to provide automatic translation of its web pages. This translation application tool is provided for purposes of information and convenience only. Google™ Translate is a free third-party service, which is not controlled by CalVCB. CalVCB is unable to guarantee the accuracy of any translation provided by Google™ Translate and is therefore not liable for any inaccurate information or changes in the formatting of the pages resulting from the use of the translation application tool. The web pages currently in English on the CalVCB website are the official and accurate source for the program information and services CalVCB provides. Any discrepancies or differences created in the translation are not binding and have no legal effect for compliance or enforcement purposes. If any questions arise related to the information contained in the translated website, please refer to the English version. Ok × Please install the Google Toolbar Google Translate is not support in your browser. To translate this page, please install the Google Toolbar (opens in new window) .