Safe at Home :: California Secretary of State Safe at Home What is the Safe at Home program? Safe at Home is a confidential address program administered by the California Secretary of State's Office and is most effective when used as a part of an overall safety plan. Safe at Home offers a substitute mailing address to receive first class, certified, and registered mail for victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, human trafficking, child abduction, and elder or dependent adult abuse. The program also serves reproductive and gender-affirming health care providers, employees, volunteers, and patients, and public entity employees and contractors who are in fear for their safety. This address is accepted by California state, county, and city government agencies in lieu of a residential or other mailing address where a participant can be tracked down, keeping the residence address confidential and out of the hands of someone who might want to harm them. Since the program began in 1999, Safe at Home has helped protect thousands of victims and survivors. Please take the time to explore the website to see if you or someone you know may benefit. If you have any questions about our services, feel free to contact us directly. Email: SafeAtHome@sos.ca.gov Call toll-free: (877) 322-5227 Assembly Bill 82 A new law, Assembly Bill 82 , expands program eligibility to individuals who are providers, employees, volunteers, or patients of gender-affirming health and gender-affirming mental health care, as well as their family members. To enroll under this new applicant type, you should make an appointment with a designated Enrolling Agency. You can find locations of Enrolling Agencies by accessing Where to Find an Enrolling Agency. Elections VOTING: Participants enrolled in the Safe at Home program can register as a confidential voter to keep their voting information private. If you are in fear for your safety, and meet eligibility requirements, you can apply to our program and register as a confidential voter. The deadline to register to vote for the November 3, 2026 election is October 19, 2026. If you miss the deadline, you can still register until Election Day, but you will not be registered as a confidential voter. Safe at Home participants can contact us at 1-877-322-5227 or SafeAtHome@sos.ca.gov to request a Confidential Voter Registration Card. VOTACIÓN: Los participantes inscritos en el programa Safe at Home pueden registrarse como votantes confidenciales para mantener su información electoral en privado. Si teme por su seguridad y cumple con los requisitos de elegibilidad, puede solicitar ingresar a nuestro programa y registrarse como votante confidencial. La fecha límite para registrarse para votar en la elección de Noviembre 3 de 2026 es el 19 de Octubre de 2026. Si no cumple con esta fecha límite, aún podrá registrarse hasta el Día de la Elección, pero no será registrado como votante confidencial. Los participantes de Safe at Home pueden comunicarse con nosotros al 1-877-322-5227 o a SafeAtHome@sos.ca.gov para solicitar una Tarjeta de Registro de Votante Confidencial. Call Us (916) 653-6814 Receive Updates Sign up for e-updates Write Us Agency Contacts