Confidentiality - CA Victim Compensation Board Skip to content Confidentiality HOME » For Service Providers » Confidentiality Your claim is confidential The information you share with CalVCB is strictly confidential. This includes medical information. CalVCB only shares your information with your written permission. The exception is when the law requires the information. This confidentiality applies to all material in your file. The information release you sign lets us share information with certain groups. These include: Government agencies Medical providers Dental providers Mental health providers Funeral services CalVCB may share information with those groups to determine your eligibility for compensation. We may get information from any person or agency. This includes providers and insurance companies. CalVCB shares general information with the public about its activities, including summary data. Examples are the information in the Annual Report or posted on the CalVCB website. This will not include any identifying information. CalVCB and HIPAA California law gives CalVCB the authority to ask for and get patient information. There are HIPAA rules that stop providers from sharing patient information. These rules do not apply to CalVCB. Questions? For questions about CalVCB and HIPAA, email info@victims.ca.gov . Exit site × Google™ Translate Disclaimer The California Victim Compensation Board (CalVCB) website uses Google™ Translate to provide automatic translation of its web pages. This translation application tool is provided for purposes of information and convenience only. Google™ Translate is a free third-party service, which is not controlled by CalVCB. CalVCB is unable to guarantee the accuracy of any translation provided by Google™ Translate and is therefore not liable for any inaccurate information or changes in the formatting of the pages resulting from the use of the translation application tool. The web pages currently in English on the CalVCB website are the official and accurate source for the program information and services CalVCB provides. Any discrepancies or differences created in the translation are not binding and have no legal effect for compliance or enforcement purposes. If any questions arise related to the information contained in the translated website, please refer to the English version. Ok × Please install the Google Toolbar Google Translate is not support in your browser. To translate this page, please install the Google Toolbar (opens in new window) .