California Government Code § 6206 (2025) :: 2025 California Code :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 California Code (here) 2024 California Code 2023 California Code View All Versions 2025 California Code Government Code - GOV TITLE 1 - GENERAL DIVISION 7 - MISCELLANEOUS CHAPTER 3.1 - Address Confidentiality for Victims of Domestic Violence, Sexual Assault, Stalking, Human Trafficking, Child Abduction, and Elder or Dependent Adult Abuse Section 6206. Universal Citation: CA Govt Code § 6206 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next 6206. (a) An adult person, a parent or guardian acting on behalf of a minor, or a guardian acting on behalf of an incapacitated person, who is domiciled in California, may apply to the Secretary of State to have an address designated by the Secretary of State serve as the person’s address or the address of the minor or incapacitated person. An application shall be completed in person at a community-based victims’ assistance program or a community-based assistance program that serves victims of elder or dependent adult abuse pursuant to the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (Chapter 11 (commencing with Section 15600) of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institutions Code). The application process shall include a requirement that the applicant meet with a victims’ assistance counselor and receive orientation information about the program. The Secretary of State shall approve an application if it is filed in the manner and on the form prescribed by the Secretary of State and if it contains all of the following: (1) A sworn statement by the applicant that the applicant has good reason to believe both of the following: (A) That the applicant, or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made, is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, human trafficking, child abduction, or elder or dependent adult abuse, or is a household member of a victim who is making or has made an application pursuant to this section, unless the applicant is the perpetrator of the crime that provided the basis for that victim’s application. (B) That the applicant fears for their safety, the safety of their children or household members, or the safety of the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made. (2) If the applicant alleges that the basis for the application is that the applicant, or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made, is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, human trafficking, child abduction, or elder or dependent adult abuse, the application may be accompanied by evidence, including, but not limited to, any of the following: (A) Police, court, or other government agency records or files. (B) Documentation from a domestic violence or sexual assault program, if the person is alleged to be a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, or human trafficking. (C) Documentation from a legal, clerical, medical, or other professional from whom the applicant or person on whose behalf the application is made has sought assistance in dealing with the alleged domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, human trafficking, child abduction, or elder or dependent adult abuse. (D) Any other evidence that supports the sworn statement, such as a statement from any other individual with knowledge of the circumstances that provides the basis for the claim, or physical evidence of the act or acts of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, human trafficking, child abduction, or elder or dependent adult abuse. (3) If the basis for the application is that the applicant, or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made, is a household member of a person described in paragraph (2), the application shall include the name of that person and evidence that the applicant is a household member. (4) The name and last known address of the applicant’s minor child or children, and the name and last known address of all other parents or guardians of the minor child or children of the applicant, as legally established by voluntary declaration of paternity, court order, placement on the child’s birth certificate, or other legal method pursuant to the Uniform Parentage Act (Part 3 (commencing with Section 7600) of Division 12 of the Family Code). If no other parent or guardian has been established for the applicant’s minor child or children, this section may be left blank. (5) A designation of the Secretary of State as agent for purposes of service of process and for the purpose of receipt of mail. (A) Service on the Secretary of State of any summons, writ, notice, demand, or process shall be made by delivering to the address confidentiality program personnel of the office of the Secretary of State a copy of the summons, writ, notice, demand, or process. (B) If a summons, writ, notice, demand, or process is served on the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State shall immediately cause a copy to be forwarded to the program participant at the address shown on the records of the address confidentiality program so that the summons, writ, notice, demand, or process is received by the program participant within three days of the Secretary of State’s having received it. (C) The Secretary of State shall keep a record of all summonses, writs, notices, demands, and processes served upon the Secretary of State under this section and shall record the time of that service and the Secretary of State’s action. (D) The office of the Secretary of State and any agent or person employed by the Secretary of State shall be held harmless from liability in any action brought by a person injured or harmed as a result of the handling of first-class mail on behalf of program participants. (6) The mailing address and the telephone number or numbers where the applicant can be called by the Secretary of State, and if available, the email address where the applicant can be contacted by the Secretary of State. (7) The address or addresses that the applicant requests not be disclosed for the reason that disclosure will increase the risk of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, human trafficking, child abduction, or elder or dependent adult abuse. (8) The signature of the applicant and of any individual or representative of any office designated in writing under Section 6208.5 who assisted in the preparation of the application, and the date on which the applicant signed the application. (b) Commencing January 1, 2023, the Secretary of State shall make the application form for participation in the program and any explanatory materials available in English and in at least the other languages described in Section 1632 of the Civil Code. The Secretary of State may make the application available in additional languages. (c) Applications shall be filed with the office of the Secretary of State. (d) Upon filing a properly completed application, the Secretary of State shall certify the applicant as a program participant. Applicants shall be certified for four years following the date of filing, unless the certification is withdrawn or invalidated before that date. The Secretary of State shall, by rule, establish a renewal procedure. A minor program participant who reaches 18 years of age during their enrollment may renew as an adult following the renewal procedures established by the Secretary of State. (e) If a minor child has any other legally established parent or parents, upon certification, the Secretary of State shall, within 10 days, notify all other parents or guardians identified pursuant to paragraph (4) of subdivision (a) of the designation of the Secretary of State as agent for purposes of service of process and, unless there is a court order prohibiting contact between the other parent or parents or guardian and the minor child or children of the participant, the address designated by the Secretary of State for the program participant. The notice shall be given by mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, to the last known address of the other parent or parents or guardian to be notified. A copy shall also be sent to that parent’s or guardian’s counsel of record, if provided to the Secretary of State by the applicant. (f) A person who falsely attests in an application that disclosure of the applicant’s address would endanger the applicant’s safety or the safety of the applicant’s children or household members, or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made, or who knowingly provides false or incorrect information upon making an application, is guilty of a misdemeanor. A notice shall be printed in bold type and in a conspicuous location on the face of the application informing the applicant of the penalties under this subdivision. Commencing January 1, 2023, the Secretary of State shall make the notice required by this subdivision available in English and in at least the other languages described in Section 1632 of the Civil Code. The Secretary of State may make the notice available in additional languages. (g) This section shall become operative on July 1, 2024. (Repealed (in Sec. 6) and added by Stats. 2023, Ch. 642, Sec. 7. (AB 243) Effective January 1, 2024. Operative July 1, 2024, by its own provisions.) Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. California may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Toggle button Get free summaries of new Supreme Court of California opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions