California Penal Code § 13823.95 (2025) :: 2025 California Code :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 California Code (here) 2024 California Code 2023 California Code View All Versions 2025 California Code Penal Code - PEN PART 4 - PREVENTION OF CRIMES AND APPREHENSION OF CRIMINALS TITLE 6 - CALIFORNIA COUNCIL ON CRIMINAL JUSTICE CHAPTER 3 - Criminal Justice Planning Section 13823.95. Universal Citation: CA Penal Code § 13823.95 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next 13823.95. (a) Costs incurred by a qualified health care professional, hospital, clinic, sexual assault forensic examination team, or other emergency medical facility for a medical evidentiary examination of a victim of a sexual assault, as described in the protocol developed pursuant to Section 13823.5, when the examination is performed pursuant to Sections 13823.5 and 13823.7, shall not be charged directly or indirectly to the victim of the assault. (b) (1) A victim of a sexual assault who seeks a medical evidentiary examination, as that term is used in Section 13823.93, shall be provided with a standardized medical evidentiary examination, using the medical evidentiary examination report forms and protocols for victims of sexual assault developed pursuant to Section 13823.5. A victim of a sexual assault shall not be required to participate or to agree to participate in the criminal justice system, either prior to the examination or at any other time. Pursuant to the requirements of the federal Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, and the federal Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 through the federal Office of Violence Against Women, standardized medical evidentiary examinations consistent with Sections 13823.5 and 13823.7 shall be provided to sexual assault victims who are undecided at the time of an examination whether to report to law enforcement within the recommended timeframes for collection of evidence. Mandated reporting laws, pursuant to Section 11160, shall apply. (2) Data from the medical evidentiary examination in paragraph (1), with the patient’s identity removed, may be collected for health and forensic purposes in accordance with state and federal privacy laws. (c) The cost of a medical evidentiary examination performed by a qualified health care professional, hospital, or other emergency medical facility for a victim of a sexual assault shall be treated as a local cost and charged to and reimbursed within 60 days by the local law enforcement agency in whose jurisdiction the alleged offense was committed. (1) All medical evidentiary examinations are to be reimbursed at the locally negotiated rate and shall not be subject to reduced reimbursement rates based on patient history or other reasons. (2) (A) The local law enforcement agency may seek reimbursement, as provided in subdivision (d), to offset the cost of conducting the medical evidentiary examination of a sexual assault victim who is undecided at the time of an examination whether to report to law enforcement or who has decided not to report to law enforcement. (B) The local law enforcement agency may seek reimbursement, as provided in subdivision (e), to offset the cost of conducting the medical evidentiary examination of a sexual assault victim who has determined, at the time of the examination, to report the assault to law enforcement. This subparagraph does not permit a law enforcement agency to reduce the existing locally negotiated rate or rates for medical evidentiary examinations. (d) (1) The Office of Emergency Services shall use the discretionary funds from federal grants awarded to the agency pursuant to the federal Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 and the federal Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 through the federal Office of Violence Against Women, specifically, the STOP (Services, Training, Officers, and Prosecutors) Violence Against Women Formula Grant Program, to offset the cost of the medical evidentiary examination. (2) The Office of Emergency Services shall determine the amount that may be reimbursed to offset the cost of a medical evidentiary exam once every five years. Any increase to the amount that may be reimbursed to offset the cost of a medical evidentiary exam shall not exceed 50 percent of the reimbursement amount most recently determined by the Office of Emergency Services. (3) Notwithstanding paragraph (2), the Office of Emergency Services may redetermine the amount that may be reimbursed to offset the cost of a medical evidentiary exam, at any time, if the federal government reduces the amount of the grants described in paragraph (1). (e) The Office of Emergency Services shall determine the amount that shall be reimbursed to offset the cost of medical evidentiary examinations pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (c). Reimbursements shall be provided from funds to be made available upon appropriation for this purpose. (Amended by Stats. 2021, Ch. 80, Sec. 25. (AB 145) Effective July 16, 2021.) Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. California may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Sam Bernstein Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 883-9584 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Traffic Tickets, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Sara MacGregor PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Appeals & Appellate, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Michael J. Vincent PREMIUM (734) 487-4970 Ypsilanti, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Megan  Smith PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI Website Email Call Email Profile Daniel T. Geherin PREMIUM (734) 263-2780 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Domestic Violence, Personal Injury, Civil Rights Website Email Call Email Profile William McCririe PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Domestic Violence, Juvenile Law Website Email Call Email Profile Jonathan Jones Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (248) 310-3399 Romulus, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, Traffic Tickets Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions