Who Is Eligible - CA Victim Compensation Board Skip to content Who Is Eligible HOME » For Victims » Who Is Eligible To get compensation, a person must be a victim of a certain kind of crime. In some cases, a witness to a crime may be eligible for compensation. Family members of victims can also qualify. On this page: Eligibility criteria Kinds of eligible victims Crimes covered Who is not eligible Eligibility criteria To be eligible for compensation, victims must be: A California resident at the time of the crime, or A non-resident victimized in California. The crime must involve: Physical injury, Emotional injury due to the threat of physical injury, Death, or Emotional injury, in some cases. Victims must: Cooperate with police and court officials to arrest and prosecute the offender Exceptions may apply Cooperate with CalVCB staff Not have been involved in events leading to the crime. Not have committed a felony at the time of the crime File the application within time limits. These are: Within seven years of the crime, or Seven years after the direct victim turns 21 years of age, or Seven years from when the crime could have been discovered, whichever is later. Some applications filed later than this may be considered. File a Late Consideration Form if that is the case. Kinds of eligible victims Direct victim A direct victim is the individual who is the victim of a qualifying crime. Sometimes a witness to a crime is considered a direct victim. Derivative victim A derivative victim is an individual with a relationship to a direct victim who has expenses or needs services because of that person’s injury or death. This can be a: Spouse Parent Sibling Child Grandchild Grandparent Domestic partner Roommate Caretaker of a minor victim, after the crime Good Samaritan A Good Samaritan is someone who took a direct action that benefited the public. This includes preventing a crime or rescuing a person in immediate danger. To be reimbursed, use the Application for Good Samaritan Compensation . Crimes covered Crimes covered by CalVCB include but are not limited to: Assault with a deadly weapon Battery Child abuse Child sexual assault Child endangerment and abandonment Domestic violence Driving under the influence Elder abuse Hate crimes Homicide Human trafficking Hit and run Kidnapping Murder Online harassment Rape Robbery Sexual assault Stalking Sexual battery Terrorism Vehicular manslaughter Other crimes that result in physical injury or a threat of physical injury to the victim For some crimes, victims may be eligible for compensation for emotional injury alone. These crimes include: Child abandonment Child abduction Neglect Who is not eligible Those who committed the crime Those who were involved in the events leading to the crime Those who committed a felony at the time of the crime Exceptions may be considered Those who do not cooperate with police and the court in the investigation, arrest, and trial of the person who committed the crime Exceptions are considered, like in cases of domestic violence, sexual assault, child abuse, or human trafficking Related info What is covered → How to get compensated → Exit site × Google™ Translate Disclaimer The California Victim Compensation Board (CalVCB) website uses Google™ Translate to provide automatic translation of its web pages. This translation application tool is provided for purposes of information and convenience only. Google™ Translate is a free third-party service, which is not controlled by CalVCB. CalVCB is unable to guarantee the accuracy of any translation provided by Google™ Translate and is therefore not liable for any inaccurate information or changes in the formatting of the pages resulting from the use of the translation application tool. The web pages currently in English on the CalVCB website are the official and accurate source for the program information and services CalVCB provides. Any discrepancies or differences created in the translation are not binding and have no legal effect for compliance or enforcement purposes. If any questions arise related to the information contained in the translated website, please refer to the English version. Ok × Please install the Google Toolbar Google Translate is not support in your browser. To translate this page, please install the Google Toolbar (opens in new window) .