How To Get Compensated - CA Victim Compensation Board Skip to content How To Get Compensated HOME » For Victims » How To Get Compensated Getting compensated for the cost of recovery requires a few steps. You can do these steps yourself, or get help from a victims advocate. On this page: Steps to apply Get help applying How we review your application Steps to apply Step 1: See if you’re eligible You must be a victim, have a relationship with a victim, or be a Good Samaritan affected by a qualifying crime. See if you’re eligible You must apply within filing limitations: Within 7 years of the crime, or Within 7 years of the direct victim turning 21, or Within 7 years of when the crime could have been discovered – whichever is later. Step 2: Apply for compensation To apply online: Create a CalVCB Online account or login Start a new application (in English or Spanish) To apply by paper form: File with help from a local victims advocate, or Print, complete, and mail an Application for Crime Victim Compensation (available in 18 languages) Some applications filed later than this may be considered. File a Late Consideration Form if that is the case. Emergency Assistance: Tell us if you have an urgent need on an application or bill. CalVCB issues emergency award in some cases. This award is an advance on the final compensation amount. If CalVCB later denies the application or claim, you must repay the emergency award . Step 3: Check for approval Don’t check too early. Applications can take 90 days to process. If you applied online: Login to CalVCB Online You’ll find application status on the Applications tab If you applied with a victims advocate: Check that your advocate has submitted your application If they haven’t, CalVCB won’t have a decision yet If they have, you’ll get confirmation by mail. Later, you’ll get a decision by mail. If you applied yourself: Call CalVCB Customer Service at 800-777-9229 , or Email info@victims.ca.gov , or Fill out our contact form Step 4: Submit bills If your application is approved, you must send CalVCB proof of the costs of recovery so you can be reimbursed. Only certain documents are accepted as proof. If you applied online: Login to CalVCB Online Click Upload Follow the prompts to upload your bills Be sure to choose a document type under Expenses If you applied with a victims advocate: Take your bills to your advocate. They will submit them for you. If you applied yourself: Fax your bills to 866-902-8669, or Email them to info@victims.ca.gov , or Mail them to CalVCB, PO Box 3036, Sacramento, CA 95812-3036 Include your name and application number Get help applying Victims advocates can file an application for you. They work with you and CalVCB throughout the compensation process. Advocates can also help you: Find emergency food, clothing, and shelter File a temporary restraining order Get other aid Find a victims advocate near you at your local Witness Assistance Center . How we review your application Staff will review your application and all related documents, including the crime report.  We verify your injuries, losses, and expenses. We may contact: Law enforcement Doctors Counselors Hospitals Employers Witnesses After review, our staff makes a recommendation to the Board to approve or deny the claim. Recommendations are usually made within 90 days of getting the application. To get a claim processed faster, applicants should: Complete every section of the application Include copies of crime reports, bills, receipts, and other related documents Send crime-related bills to the insurance company, workers’ compensation carrier, or Medi-Cal immediately. CalVCB works with those organizations to pay crime-related expenses. Our review process For more details, watch our explanation videos (15 minutes each) CalVCB overview – English CalVCB overview – Spanish Related info Who is eligible → What is covered → Exit site × Google™ Translate Disclaimer The California Victim Compensation Board (CalVCB) website uses Google™ Translate to provide automatic translation of its web pages. This translation application tool is provided for purposes of information and convenience only. Google™ Translate is a free third-party service, which is not controlled by CalVCB. CalVCB is unable to guarantee the accuracy of any translation provided by Google™ Translate and is therefore not liable for any inaccurate information or changes in the formatting of the pages resulting from the use of the translation application tool. The web pages currently in English on the CalVCB website are the official and accurate source for the program information and services CalVCB provides. Any discrepancies or differences created in the translation are not binding and have no legal effect for compliance or enforcement purposes. If any questions arise related to the information contained in the translated website, please refer to the English version. Ok × Please install the Google Toolbar Google Translate is not support in your browser. To translate this page, please install the Google Toolbar (opens in new window) .