About | Safe at Home Skip to content Safety Exit About Safe at Home Address Confidentiality Program Services The Safe at Home program can provide victims of domestic violence, stalking, human trafficking, and sexual assault with the following core services: A legal substitute address that can be used in place of their residential address Mail forwarding Program participants use the substitute address for interacting with government agencies so that the residential address is hidden from public records. Participant mail can be sent to the substitute address and will then be repackaged and forwarded to participants at their actual address. Safe at Home services are meant to be a tool for survivors that is part of a comprehensive safety plan. These services are provided at no cost to program participants. Substitute Address The Safe at Home program provides participants with a legal substitute address to be used in place of their actual home address. Generally, participants should use their substitute address instead of their actual address whenever possible. Under Utah law, all state and local government agencies must accept a participant’s substitute address. Private companies may accept the substitute address, but are not required to do so. How the substitute address works The substitute address is the address of a state office building, plus an “apartment number” that is unique to each participant household.  The apartment number allows Safe at Home staff to sort participant mail quickly and efficiently.  Since the substitute address is used for creating and updating public records, it is not confidential.  Please note, the address is not the location of the Safe at Home program and participants may NOT pick up their mail at the substitute address. Mail Forwarding The Safe at Home program forwards all first class mail addressed to participants several times for week. Mail is not forwarded on weekends and state holidays. First class mail includes most types of personal mail, such as letters, postcards, and bills. This also includes certified and registered mail. Safe at Home does not forward marketing mail (“junk mail” advertisements from businesses or nonprofits) or periodicals (magazines, newspapers, or newsletters). Safe at Home does not accept packages, with the exception of clearly marked prescriptions or medical devices. These unaccepted items will be returned to sender. Mail Handling Delay Participants should expect a delay of three to five business days in receiving their mail.  Incorrectly addressed mail including mail with a missing apartment number may be further delayed, or returned to sender. Package Policy Safe at Home is unable to accept and forward packages, with some specific exceptions.  Safe at Home will forward clearly marked prescriptions, medical devices, license plates, and packets of bank checks.  All other packages will be returned to sender.  Safe at Home participants should make other arrangements to receive packages. Business Mail Policy Safe at Home is unable to forward mail addressed to a business, trust, charitable organization, or similar entity.  These entities are not eligible for program enrollment.  Safe at Home will accept business mail only if the letter is addressed directly to the participant (not “in care of” or “to the attention of”).  For more information, participants should refer to the Participant Handbook. Service of Process and legal mail Safe at Home acts as participants’ legal agent for the purpose of accepting legal mail and subpoenas (or any other personally-served document) as long as the service is in the participant’s legal name.  When Safe at Home accepts service on behalf of a participant, the participant is legally responsible for complying with the requirements contained in the legal document(s).  Safe at Home staff will notify participants about the service and forward the served document(s) by mail. Enrollment Period Program participants are certified for four years once accepted into the program, and may renew their certification for additional four year terms. Participants can continue program services as long as needed, and may voluntarily withdraw from the program at any time. Program Materials Once Safe at Home receives and processes a program application, Safe at Home sends the new participant household a “Welcome Packet” containing program instructions, forms, and authorization cards. The authorization cards show the assigned substitute address. Program participants must present their authorization card when creating or changing public records. Participant Confidentiality Enrolling in the Safe at Home program protects some (but not all) types of participant information. Confidential Information Actual home address Actual mailing address, if different from home address City of residence County of residence Voting precinct Phone number Unique identifying information related to a participant’s home, work, or school address Non-Confidential Information Safe at Home program participation Date of Safe at Home enrollment Participant’s substitute address State of residence Records created more than 90 days prior to enrollment Information voluntarily provided by the participant to a state or local government agency Verification of Participation to third parties Safe at Home can verify a participant’s enrollment in the program, as well as whether a Safe at Home authorization card is current and valid.  Safe at Home will not release the confidential information listed above. Emergency release of participant information Safe at Home is legally required to release a participant’s actual home address to a criminal justice agency if the information is required pursuant to a criminal proceeding or investigation involving a participant. Safe at Home will establish a procedure to review the validity of the requested information and law enforcement will ensure the information is used only for the stated purpose and not retained after the reason for the request has passed.