Apply for Compensation | Utah Office for Victims of Crime Skip to content Safety Exit Apply for Compensation Victim Compensation Application Process Applications are reviewed in the order that they are received. Processing time is approximately 60-90 days. The Utah Office for Victims of Crime staff must request the investigative report directly from the law enforcement agency. This report is then reviewed to confirm that the documented crime qualifies for compensation. The application can be completed either through the online portal or by filling out the PDF and submitting it via email, mail, or fax. If any assistance is needed with the application process, reach out to a UOVC victim advocate at (801) 238-2360 Online Application (opens in a new tab) English Application PDF (opens in a new tab) Spanish Application PDF (opens in a new tab) Eligibility Utah Office for Victims of Crime (UOVC) staff determine eligibility based on Utah Code 75E-5-305 and R270 (Crime Victim Reparations, Administration) The following are a summary of general eligibility standards: The crime must have occurred in Utah Residents of Utah may still apply if there is no compensation program in the area the crime occurred The crime must have occurred on or after January 1, 1987. The crime must have been reported to law enforcement and the applicant must be cooperative throughout the entire investigation and prosecution, except in cases of sexual assault and interpersonal non-fatal strangulation. In cases of sexual assault, a questionnaire can be completed by a sexual assault victim service provider in place of a police report. You can find a list of sexual assault providers here . The victim must not have been incarcerated when the crime occurred. Crimes that are eligible for compensation include: Aggravated Robbery Assault Domestic Violence Bigamy Child Physical or Sexual Abuse DUI with Injury or Death Elder Abuse Home Invasion Homicide Human Trafficking (Sex or Labor) Kidnapping and Unlawful Detention Protective Order Violations Sex Crimes Stalking Threats of Violence Vehicular Assault or Homicide Other crimes not specified here may be eligible for compensation, please contact one of UOVC’s Victim Advocates if you have questions. Crimes not eligible for compensation include property crimes, car accidents, financial crimes, hit and runs, and crimes that occurred during incarceration. You might also like... What Happens After a Decision Restitution