Agency Compliance | Safe at Home Skip to content Safety Exit Agency Compliance State and local agencies The Safe at Home Program law ( Utah Code Annotated § 77-38-6 ) requires state and local government agencies in Utah to accept a Safe at Home participant’s substitute address when presented with a current Safe at Home authorization card. (See: Utah Code Annotated § 77-38-611 .) Please contact Safe at Home with questions about the program requirements and agency compliance.  (801) 538-1600 or [email protected] . Service of Process Program Assistants meet with potential program participants, assist with completing the application, and make referrals. Program Assistants determine whether an applicant is eligible for program services and assess whether the program would be a good fit for a victim they are working with. They also assist applicants with completing the application and submit it to the Safe at Home Program once the application is complete. Victims are required to meet with a certified application assistant in order to enroll in the program. Applying directly to the Safe at Home Program without an outside program assistant is not possible. Service of legal documents by first class, registered, or certified mail Participants can be served by mail, addressed to them at their substitute address. Please clearly mark any envelopes containing documents to be served by mail with “Service of Process.” This will ensure that Safe at Home can properly notify the participant of their legal obligations and record that service was received. Personal Service Personal service is accepted at the Safe at Home program’s mailing address, located at 250 North 1950 West, Ste. C, Salt Lake City, UT 84116.  A Safe at Home designee will accept personal service if the program records reflect that a certified participant is enrolled with the same legal name and apartment number as the served documents.  Prior to arrival, please verify that the Safe at Home Program can accept service for the person named in the documents by sending an email to [email protected]