What Happens After a Decision | Utah Office for Victims of Crime Skip to content Safety Exit What Happens After a Decision Victim Compensation Quick Links My Claim Has Been Approved My Claim Has Been Denied My Claim has Been Approved If your claim is approved for compensation, you will receive an approval packet by mail, unless you have requested notification via phone or email. This packet will include your approval letter, which lists the specific benefits for which you have been approved, and the applicable benefit forms. How Expenses are Paid UOVC acts as a payer of last resort. Before UOVC can issue payment, all other available collateral sources must be utilized. These sources include: Health insurance Medicare Medicaid Workers' Compensation Payouts from the victim's or offender's auto insurance Money received from civil lawsuits In certain circumstances, a medical insurance waiver may be requested and will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Please send an email to [email protected] or call (801) 238-2360 for assistance with this. Medical, Mental Health, and Dental Costs The Utah Office for Victims of Crime (UOVC)  functions as the primary or secondary insurance for these expenses. Providers should bill UOVC directly. If you receive a bill at home, please give your medical provider your claim number and ask them to submit the bill directly to UOVC. Funeral or Relocation Costs Payment for these services may be made directly to the providers, or the claimant/victim can be reimbursed upon submission of the necessary documentation. Most Other Expenses These are typically paid or reimbursed to the claimant/victim. My Claim Has Been Denied Applicants have the right to appeal denials under R270-2-3 (Contested Determinations). The appeal process begins with a reconsideration request. If the reconsideration is denied, then the applicant may proceed with the formal appeal process. If you would like to initiate a reconsideration or appeal, please contact the Advocacy Center at 801-238-2360. You might also like... Apply for Compensation Restitution