Safe at Home Skip to content Safety Exit Safe at Home Utah's address confidentiality program To apply to Safe at Home, please visit the How to Enroll page to find a Certified Program Assistant who can help you access the application. If you are a victim advocate interested in becoming a Certified Program Assistant, please visit the Program Assistants webpage for upcoming training dates. [email protected] (801) 538-1600             1(833) 747-SAFE (7233) Safe at Home email link Safe at Home toll free number About Utah’s Safe at Home Program Participant Responsibilities Learn how to make the program work for you How to Enroll You must meet with a certified program assistant to apply Program Assistants Become certified and help victims apply to Safe at Home Agency Compliance Information about legal requirements Survivor Resources Link to resources for survivors including online and technology safety tips Utah’s Safe at Home Program is available to survivors of abuse, child abuse, domestic violence, stalking, human trafficking, and sexual assault who are afraid that they will be in physical danger if their perpetrator knows where they live. The program will provide a substitute address and mail forwarding for survivors living in Utah. Under Utah law, all state and local government agencies must accept a program participant’s substitute address. This program is meant to enhance a comprehensive safety plan and increase survivor safety. About Utah's Safe at Home program How to Enroll You must meet with a certified program assistant to apply Participant Responsibilities Learn how to make the program work for you Program Assistants Become certified and help victims apply to Safe at Home Agency Compliance Legal requirements for state and local government entities Survivor Resources Link to resources for victims of crime Utah’s Safe at Home Program is available to survivors of abuse, child abuse, domestic violence, stalking, human trafficking, and sexual assault who are afraid that they will be in danger if their perpetrator knows where they live. The program provides a legal substitute address and mail forwarding for survivors living in Utah. Under Utah law, all state and local government agencies must accept a program participant’s substitute address. This program is meant to enhance a comprehensive safety plan and increase survivor safety.