Crime Victim Compensation Safer Communities Translate Website × Google™ Translate Disclaimer This Google™ translation feature is provided for informational purposes only. The Office of the Attorney General is unable to guarantee the accuracy of this translation and is therefore not liable for any inaccurate information resulting from the translation application tool. Please consult with a translator for accuracy if you are relying on the translation or are using this site for official business. If you have any questions, please complete a Contact Us Form and select Language Translation Help. Select a Language Below Jump To: Consumer Protection Toggle Dropdown Consumer Protection Landing Page Consumer Alerts, Warnings and Recalls Auto Buying, Financing, and Repair Charitable Giving for Donors and Organizations Finance and Credit Concerns Health Care Issues and Advocacy Homeownership and Rental Issues Home Repair Fraud Identity Theft: Report It. Restore It Public Utilities Student Loans and Debt Assistance Resources for Businesses Honest and Open Government Toggle Dropdown Honest and Open Government Landing Page Public Integrity and Corruption Investigations Medicaid Fraud and Elderly Abuse Public Access Counselor Filing a Freedom of Information Act for OAG records Ethics in the OAG Inspector General Conviction Integrity Unit Preserving the Environment Toggle Dropdown Preserving the Environment Landing Page Environmental Enforcement Division Investigating and Prosecuting Environmental Crimes Fighting for Environmental Justice Agriculture Rights of the People Toggle Dropdown Rights of the People Landing Page Civil Rights Disability Rights Military and Veterans Rights Senior Advocacy Women's Issues Workplace Rights Safer Communities Toggle Dropdown Safer Communities Landing Page Safeguarding Children Preventing Violence and Promoting Public Safety Supporting Victims of Crime Grants for Agencies Supporting Crime Victims Responding to Sexual Assault Resources for Law Enforcement Organized Retail Crime Grant File a Complaint Get Connected: Crime Victim Assistance Line: 1-800-228-3368 Individuals with hearing or speech disabilities can reach us by using the 7-1-1 relay service Supporting Victims of Crime Crime Victim Compensation A violent crime can have a lasting impact and can bring changes that one might not expect. The Office of the
        Attorney General led the way for legislation that created the Crime Victims Compensation Act. This law reserved resources to help those who lives were interrupted by a violent crime. This financial assistance could include offsetting costs related to: Accessibility and Usability of Property Crime-Scene Clean Up Funeral/Burial Expenses Loss of Earnings Medical, Hospital and Dental Expenses Mental Health Counseling Expenses Relocation Costs Replacement Costs Tuition Expenses The Illinois Crime Victims Compensation Program offers reimbursement up to $45,000 ($27,000 for crimes before 8/7/22) for expenses incurred by eligible victims as a result of a violent crime. If you or someone you love has been impacted by a violent crime, please call our toll-free Crime Victims
        Assistance Line at 800-228-3368 for more information. You can also apply for compensation below. *Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq., prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin in programs receiving federal financial assistance. Persons who speak English as a second language who are applicants or recipients to programs receiving federal financial assistance, will be afforded language translation and interpretation services at no charge to the applicant or recipient. If you believe you have been discriminated against in a program of any institution which receives Federal financial assistance, you should immediately contact the Federal agency providing such assistance. Crime Victims Compensation Guide - English Crime Victims Compensation Guide - Polish Crime Victims Compensation Guide - Simplified Chinese Crime Victims Compensation Guide - Spanish Crime Victims Compensation Guide - Tagalog Crime Victims Compensation Guide - Traditional Chinese Crime Victims Frequently Asked Questions by Sexual Assault Victims Crime Victim Compensation Application The Attorney General’s Office encourages all victims of violent crime to complete the Crime Victim Compensation Program application. While the program is limited to certain eligibility requirements, there is a broad range of circumstances that can be considered. Watch a video for an overview of the process or details on completing the online form: Explaining the Crime Victim Process - English Explaining the Crime Victim Process - Spanish Explaining the Crime Victim Process - Polish Start a Crime Victim Compensation Application Online The preferred method to file a crime victim compensation is by an online submission at the link above. For those who may require a form complete the fillable application electronically and return by email at CVA@ilag.gov . The office has these downloadable files with instructions available. Filling out the Application - English Filling out the Application - Spanish Filling out the Application - Polish Filling out the Application - Simplified Chinese Filling out the Application - Tagalog Filling out the Application - Traditional Chinese Downloadable Resources Emergency Awards Request for Law Enforcement Notification Exception Crime Changes Things poster is to be displayed in hospital emergency rooms, police stations and courthouses. Illinois Crime Victims Bill of Rights Poster 8.5x11 - English Illinois Crime Victims Bill of Rights Poster 8.5x11 - Spanish Illinois Crime Victims Bill of Rights Poster 11x17 - English Illinois Crime Victims Bill of Rights Poster 11x17 - Spanish Crime Changes Things 8.5 X 11 Display - English Crime Changes Things 8.5 X 11 Display - Spanish Crime Changes Things 8.5 X 11 Display - Polish Crime Changes Things 11 X 17 Wall Size - English Crime Changes Things 11 X 17 Wall Size - Spanish Crime Changes Things 11 X 17 Wall Size - Polish