Illinois General Assembly -  - Press Option+1 for screen-reader mode, Option+0 to cancel Accessibility Screen-Reader Guide, Feedback, and Issue Reporting | New window Select Language Abkhaz Acehnese Acholi Afar Afrikaans Albanian Alur Amharic Arabic Armenian Assamese Avar Awadhi Aymara Azerbaijani Balinese Baluchi Bambara Baoulé Bashkir Basque Batak Karo Batak Simalungun Batak Toba Belarusian Bemba Bengali Betawi Bhojpuri Bikol Bosnian Breton Bulgarian Buryat Cantonese Catalan Cebuano Chamorro Chechen Chichewa Chinese (Simplified) Chinese (Traditional) Chuukese Chuvash Corsican Crimean Tatar (Cyrillic) Crimean Tatar (Latin) Croatian Czech Danish Dari Dhivehi Dinka Dogri Dombe Dutch Dyula Dzongkha Esperanto Estonian Ewe Faroese Fijian Filipino Finnish Fon French French (Canada) Frisian Friulian Fulani Ga Galician Georgian German Greek Guarani Gujarati Haitian Creole Hakha Chin Hausa Hawaiian Hebrew Hiligaynon Hindi Hmong Hungarian Hunsrik Iban Icelandic Igbo Ilocano Indonesian Inuktut (Latin) Inuktut (Syllabics) Irish Italian Jamaican Patois Japanese Javanese Jingpo Kalaallisut Kannada Kanuri Kapampangan Kazakh Khasi Khmer Kiga Kikongo Kinyarwanda Kituba Kokborok Komi Konkani Korean Krio Kurdish (Kurmanji) Kurdish (Sorani) Kyrgyz Lao Latgalian Latin Latvian Ligurian Limburgish Lingala Lithuanian Lombard Luganda Luo Luxembourgish Macedonian Madurese Maithili Makassar Malagasy Malay Malay (Jawi) Malayalam Maltese Mam Manx Maori Marathi Marshallese Marwadi Mauritian Creole Meadow Mari Meiteilon (Manipuri) Minang Mizo Mongolian Myanmar (Burmese) Nahuatl (Eastern Huasteca) Ndau Ndebele (South) Nepalbhasa (Newari) Nepali NKo Norwegian Nuer Occitan Odia (Oriya) Oromo Ossetian Pangasinan Papiamento Pashto Persian Polish Portuguese (Brazil) Portuguese (Portugal) Punjabi (Gurmukhi) Punjabi (Shahmukhi) Quechua Qʼeqchiʼ Romani Romanian Rundi Russian Sami (North) Samoan Sango Sanskrit Santali (Latin) Santali (Ol Chiki) Scots Gaelic Sepedi Serbian Sesotho Seychellois Creole Shan Shona Sicilian Silesian Sindhi Sinhala Slovak Slovenian Somali Spanish Sundanese Susu Swahili Swati Swedish Tahitian Tajik Tamazight Tamazight (Tifinagh) Tamil Tatar Telugu Tetum Thai Tibetan Tigrinya Tiv Tok Pisin Tongan Tshiluba Tsonga Tswana Tulu Tumbuka Turkish Turkmen Tuvan Twi Udmurt Ukrainian Urdu Uyghur Uzbek Venda Venetian Vietnamese Waray Welsh Wolof Xhosa Yakut Yiddish Yoruba Yucatec Maya Zapotec Zulu Powered by Translate Select Language × The Illinois General Assembly offers the Google Translate™ service for visitor convenience. In no way should it be considered accurate as to the translation of any content herein. Visitors of the Illinois General Assembly website are encouraged to use other translation services available on the internet. The English language version is always the official and authoritative version of this website. NOTE: To return to the original English language version, select the "Show Original" button on the Google Translate™ menu bar at the top of the window. Choose Language English Afrikaans Albanian Arabic Armenian Azerbaijani Basque Bengali Bosnian Catalan Croatian Czech Danish Dutch Esperanto Estonian Filipino Finnish French Galician Georgian German Greek Gujarati Haitian Creole Hausa Hawaiian Hebrew Hindi Hungarian Icelandic Indonesian Interlingua Interlingue Inuktitut Irish Italian Japanese Javanese Kannada Khmer Korean Latin Latvian Lithuanian Luxembourgish Macedonian Malagasy Malayalam Maltese Maori Marathi Myanmar Nepali Norwegian Odia Pashto Punjabi Romanian Russian Samoan Sango Sanskrit Sardinian Sindhi Sinhala Slovak Slovenian Somali Southern Sotho Spanish Sundanese Swahili Swedish Tamil Telugu Thai Tigrinya Tonga Turkish Ukrainian Urdu Vietnamese Welsh Xhosa Yiddish Yoruba Zulu Powered by Translate Close - Home Legislation Illinois Compiled Statutes - CIVIL LIABILITIES
                    (740 ILCS 45/) Crime Victims Compensation Act. Back to Act Listing By Act Name Printer Friendly Illinois Compiled Statutes (ILCS) Updating the database of the Illinois Compiled Statutes (ILCS) is an ongoing process. Recent laws may not yet be included in the ILCS database, but they are found on this site as Public Acts soon after they become law. For information concerning the relationship between statutes and Public Acts, refer to the Guide . Because the statute database is maintained primarily for legislative drafting purposes, statutory changes are sometimes included in the statute database before they take effect. If the source note at the end of a Section of the statutes includes a Public Act that has not yet taken effect, the version of the law that is currently in effect may have already been removed from the database and you should refer to that Public Act to see the changes made to the current law. (740 ILCS 45/1) (from Ch. 70, par. 71) Sec. 1. This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "Crime Victims
Compensation Act". (Source: P.A. 78-359 .) (740 ILCS 45/2) Sec. 2. Definitions. As used in this Act, unless the context otherwise requires: (a) "Applicant" means any of the following claiming compensation under this Act: (1) A victim. (2) If the victim was a guardian or primary caregiver to an adult who is physically or mentally incapacitated, that adult who is physically or mentally incapacitated. (3) A guardian of a minor or of a person under legal disability. (4) A person who, at the time the crime occurred, resided in the same dwelling as the victim, solely for the purpose of compensating for any of the following: (A) Pecuniary loss incurred for psychological treatment of a mental or emotional condition caused or aggravated by the crime. (B) Loss of earnings under paragraph (14.5) of subsection (h) for time off from work necessary to provide full time care for the injured victim. (C) Relocation expenses. (5) A person who assumes a legal obligation or voluntarily pays for a victim's medical or funeral or burial expenses. (6) Any other person the Court of Claims or the Attorney General finds is entitled to compensation. The changes made to this subsection by Public Act 101-652 apply to actions commenced or pending on or after January 1, 2022. (b) "Court of Claims" means the Court of Claims created by the Court of Claims Act. (c) "Crime of violence" means and includes any offense defined in Sections 9-1, 9-1.2, 9-2, 9-2.1, 9-3, 9-3.2, 10-1, 10-2, 10-9, 11-1.20, 11-1.30, 11-1.40, 11-1.50, 11-1.60, 11-11, 11-20.1, 11-23, 11-23.5, 12-1, 12-2, 12-3, 12-3.05, 12-3.1, 12-3.2, 12-3.3, 12-3.4, 12-5, 12-7.1, 12-7.3, 12-7.4, 12-20.5, 20-1 or 20-1.1, or Section 12-3.05 except for subdivision (a)(4) or (g)(1), or subdivision (a)(4) of Section 11-14.4, of the Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012, Sections 1(a) and 1(a-5) of the Cemetery Protection Act, Section 125 of the Stalking No Contact Order Act, Section 219 of the Civil No Contact Order Act, driving under the influence as defined in Section 11-501 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, a violation of Section 11-401 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, provided the victim was a pedestrian or was operating a vehicle moved solely by human power or a mobility device at the time of contact, and a violation of Section 11-204.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code; so long as the offense did not occur during a civil riot, insurrection or rebellion. "Crime of violence" does not include any other offense or crash involving a motor vehicle except those vehicle offenses specifically provided for in this paragraph. "Crime of violence" does include all of the offenses specifically provided for in this paragraph that occur within this State but are subject to federal jurisdiction and crimes involving terrorism as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2331. (d) "Victim" means (1) a person killed or injured in this State as a result of a crime of violence perpetrated or attempted against him or her, (2) the spouse, parent, or child of a person killed or injured in this State as a result of a crime of violence perpetrated or attempted against the person, or anyone living in the dwelling of a person killed or injured in a relationship that is substantially similar to that of a parent, spouse, or child, (3) a person killed or injured in this State while attempting to assist a person against whom a crime of violence is being perpetrated or attempted, if that attempt of assistance would be expected of a reasonable person under the circumstances, (4) a person killed or injured in this State while assisting a law enforcement official apprehend a person who has perpetrated a crime of violence or prevent the perpetration of any such crime if that assistance was in response to the express request of the law enforcement official, (5) a person who personally witnessed a violent crime, (5.05) a person who will be called as a witness by the prosecution to establish a necessary nexus between the offender and the violent crime, (5.1) any person who is the grandparent, grandchild, brother, sister, half brother, or half sister of a person killed or injured in this State as a result of a crime of violence, applying solely for the purpose of compensating for pecuniary loss incurred for psychological treatment of a mental or emotional condition caused or aggravated by the crime, loss of earnings under paragraph (14.5) of subsection (h) for time off from work necessary to provide full time care for the injured victim, or relocation if the crime occurred within the dwelling of the applicant, (5.2) any person who was in a dating relationship with a person killed in this State as a result of a crime of violence, solely for the purpose of compensating for pecuniary loss incurred for psychological treatment of a mental or emotional condition caused or aggravated by the crime, (6) an Illinois resident who is a victim of a "crime of violence" as defined in this Act except, if the crime occurred outside this State, the resident has the same rights under this Act as if the crime had occurred in this State upon a showing that the state, territory, country, or political subdivision of a country in which the crime occurred does not have a compensation of victims of crimes law for which that Illinois resident is eligible, (7) the parent, spouse, or child of a deceased person whose body is dismembered or whose remains are desecrated as the result of a crime of violence, (8) (blank), or (9) an individual who is injured or killed in an incident in which a law enforcement officer's use of force caused bodily harm or death to that individual. (e) "Dependent" means a relative of a deceased victim who was wholly or partially dependent upon the victim's income at the time of his or her death and shall include the child of a victim born after his or her death. (f) "Relative" means a spouse, parent, grandparent, stepfather, stepmother, child, grandchild, brother, brother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, half brother, half sister, spouse's parent, nephew, niece, uncle, aunt, or anyone living in the dwelling of a person killed or injured in a relationship that is substantially similar to that of a parent, spouse, or child. (g) "Child" means a son or daughter and includes a stepchild, an adopted child or a child born out of wedlock. (h) "Pecuniary loss" means: (1) in the case of injury, appropriate medical expenses and hospital expenses including expenses of medical examinations, rehabilitation, medically required nursing care expenses, appropriate psychiatric care or psychiatric counseling expenses, appropriate expenses for care or counseling by a licensed clinical psychologist, licensed clinical social worker, licensed professional counselor, or licensed clinical professional counselor and expenses for treatment by Christian Science practitioners and nursing care appropriate thereto; (2) transportation expenses to and from medical and counseling treatment facilities; (3) prosthetic appliances, eyeglasses, and hearing aids necessary or damaged as a result of the crime; (4) expenses incurred for the towing and storage of a victim's vehicle in connection with a crime of violence, to a maximum of $1,000; (5) costs associated with trafficking tattoo removal by a person authorized or licensed to perform the specific removal procedure; for victims of offenses defined in Section 10-9 of the Criminal Code of 2012, the victim shall submit a statement under oath on a form prescribed by the Attorney General attesting that the removed tattoo was applied in connection with the commission of the offense; (6) replacement costs for clothing and bedding used as evidence; (7) costs associated with temporary lodging or relocation necessary as a result of the crime, including, but not limited to, the first 2 months' rent and security deposit of the dwelling that the claimant relocated to and other reasonable relocation expenses incurred as a result of the violent crime; (8) locks, doors, or windows necessary or damaged as a result of the crime; (9) the purchase, lease, or rental of equipment necessary to create usability of and accessibility to the victim's real and personal property, or the real and personal property which is used by the victim, necessary as a result of the crime; "real and personal property" includes, but is not limited to, vehicles, houses, apartments, townhouses, or condominiums; (10) the costs of appropriate crime scene clean-up; (11) replacement services loss, to a maximum of $1,250 per month, with this amount to be divided in proportion to the amount of the actual loss among those entitled to compensation; (12) dependents replacement services loss, to a maximum of $1,250 per month, with this amount to be divided in proportion to the amount of the actual loss among those entitled to compensation; (13) loss of tuition paid to attend grammar school or high school when the victim had been enrolled as a student prior to the injury, or college or graduate school when the victim had been enrolled as a day or night student prior to the injury when the victim becomes unable to continue attendance at school as a result of the crime of violence perpetrated against him or her; (14) loss of earnings, loss of future earnings because of disability resulting from the injury. Loss of future earnings shall be reduced by any income from substitute work actually performed by the victim or by income the victim would have earned in available appropriate substitute work the victim was capable of performing but unreasonably failed to undertake; loss of earnings and loss of future earnings shall be determined on the basis of the victim's average net monthly earnings for the 6 months immediately preceding the date of the injury or on $2,400 per month, whichever is less, or, in cases where the absences commenced more than 3 years from the date of the crime, on the basis of the net monthly earnings for the 6 months immediately preceding the date of the first absence, not to exceed $2,400 per month; (14.5) loss of earnings for applicants or loss of future earnings for applicants. The applicant must demonstrate that the loss of earnings is a direct result of circumstances attributed to the crime including, but not limited to, court appearances, funeral preparation and bereavement, receipt of medical or psychological care; loss of earnings and loss of future earnings shall be determined on the basis of the applicant's average net monthly earnings for the 6 months immediately preceding the date of the injury or on $2,400 per month, whichever is less, or, in cases where the absences commenced more than 3 years from the date of the crime, on the basis of the net monthly earnings for the 6 months immediately preceding the date of the first absence, not to exceed $2,400 per month; (15) loss of support of the dependents of the victim. Loss of support shall be determined on the basis of the victim's average net monthly earnings for the 6 months immediately preceding the date of the injury or on $2,400 per month, whichever is less, or, in cases where the absences commenced more than 3 years from the date of the crime, on the basis of the net monthly earnings for the 6 months immediately preceding the date of the first absence, not to exceed $2,400 per month. If a divorced or legally separated applicant is claiming loss of support for a minor child of the deceased, the amount of support for each child shall be based either on the amount of support pursuant to the judgment prior to the date of the deceased victim's injury or death, or, if the subject of pending litigation filed by or on behalf of the divorced or legally separated applicant prior to the injury or death, on the result of that litigation. Loss of support for minors shall be divided in proportion to the amount of the actual loss among those entitled to such compensation; (16) in the case of death, expenses for reasonable funeral, burial, headstone, cremation, and travel and transport for survivors of homicide victims to secure bodies of deceased victims and to transport bodies for burial all of which may be awarded up to a maximum of $10,000 for each victim. Other individuals that have paid or become obligated to pay funeral, cremation, or burial expenses, including a headstone, for the deceased shall share a maximum award of $10,000, with the award divided in proportion to the amount of the actual loss among those entitled to compensation; (17) in the case of dismemberment or desecration of a body, expenses for reasonable funeral, burial, headstone, and cremation, all of which may be awarded up to a maximum of $10,000 for each victim. Other individuals that have paid or become obligated to pay funeral, cremation, or burial expenses, including a headstone, for the deceased shall share a maximum award of $10,000, with the award divided in proportion to the amount of the actual loss among those entitled to compensation; and (19) legal fees resulting from proceedings that became necessary solely because of the crime, including, but not limited to, establishing a legal guardian for the minor victim or the minor child of a victim, or obtaining a restraining order, no contact order, or order of protection, awarded up to a maximum of $3,500. "Pecuniary loss" does not include pain and suffering or property loss or damage. The changes made to this subsection by Public Act 101-652 apply to actions commenced or pending on or after January 1, 2022. (i) "Replacement services loss" means expenses reasonably incurred in obtaining ordinary and necessary services in lieu of those the injured person would have performed, not for income, but for the benefit of himself or herself or his or her family, if he or she had not been injured. (j) "Dependents replacement services loss" means loss reasonably incurred by dependents or private legal guardians of minor dependents after a victim's death in obtaining ordinary and necessary services in lieu of those the victim would have performed, not for income, but for their benefit, if he or she had not been fatally injured. (k) "Survivor" means immediate family including a parent, stepfather, stepmother, child, brother, sister, or spouse. (l) "Parent" means a natural parent, adopted parent, stepparent, or permanent legal guardian of another person. (m) "Trafficking tattoo" is a tattoo which is applied to a victim in connection with the commission of a violation of Section 10-9 of the Criminal Code of 2012. (n) "Dwelling" means a person's primary home. A person may be required to provide verification or proof of residence including, but not limited to, a lease agreement, utility bill, license registration, document showing the mailing address, pay stub, tax form, or notarized statement. (o) "Dating relationship" means a current, continuous, romantic, courtship, or engagement relationship, often characterized by actions of an intimate or sexual nature or an expectation of affection. "Dating relationship" does not include a casual acquaintanceship or ordinary fraternization between persons in a business or social context. (p) "Medical facility" means a facility for the delivery of health services. "Medical facility" includes, but is not limited to, a hospital, public health center, outpatient medical facility, federally qualified health center, migrant health center, community health center, or State correctional institution. (q) "Mental health provider" means a licensed clinical psychologist, a licensed clinical social worker, a licensed professional counselor, or a licensed clinical professional counselor as defined in the Mental Health and Developmental Disabilities Code. (r) "Independent medical evaluation" means an assessment by a mental health provider who is not currently providing treatment to the applicant and will not seek reimbursement from the program for continuing treatment after the assessment. A provider may seek reimbursement for the assessment. (Source: P.A. 102-27, eff. 6-25-21; 102-905, eff. 1-1-23; 102-982, eff. 7-1-23; 103-154, eff. 6-30-23; 103-564, eff. 11-17-23; 103-1037, eff. 1-1-25 .) (740 ILCS 45/2.5) Sec. 2.5. Felony status. A victim's criminal history or felony status shall not prevent compensation to that victim or the victim's family. No compensation may be granted to an applicant under this Act while the applicant is held in a correctional institution. An applicant who is held in a correctional institution may apply for assistance under this Act at any time, but no award of compensation may be considered until the applicant meets the requirements of this Section. (Source: P.A. 103-1037, eff. 1-1-25 .) (740 ILCS 45/3.1) (from Ch. 70, par. 73.1) Sec. 3.1. In addition to other powers and duties set forth in the Court
of Claims Act and this Act, the Court of Claims shall have power to issue
subpoenas, to administer oaths, to conduct hearings required by this Act
and to promulgate all rules necessary thereto, and to prepare an annual report. (Source: P.A. 81-1013.) (740 ILCS 45/4.1) (from Ch. 70, par. 74.1) (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-563 ) Sec. 4.1. In addition to other powers and duties set forth in this Act and other powers exercised by the Attorney General, the Attorney General shall: (1) investigate all claims and prepare and present an investigatory report and a draft award determination to the Court of Claims for a review period of 28 business days; (2) upon conclusion of the review by the Court of Claims, provide the applicant with a compensation determination letter; (3) prescribe and furnish all applications and other forms required to be filed in the office of the Attorney General by the terms of this Act; (4) represent the interests of the State of Illinois in any hearing before the Court of Claims; and (5) upon failure to comply with Section 4.2, the Attorney General's office shall have the power to issue subpoenas to compel the production of law enforcement reports maintained by law enforcement agencies. The changes made to this Section by this amendatory Act of the 101st General Assembly apply to actions commenced or pending on or after January 1, 2022. (Source: P.A. 102-27, eff. 6-25-21; 103-1037, eff. 8-9-24.) (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-563 ) Sec. 4.1. In addition to other powers and duties set forth in this Act and other powers exercised by the Attorney General, the Attorney General shall: (1) investigate all claims and prepare and present an investigatory report and a draft award determination to the Court of Claims for a review period of 28 business days; (2) upon conclusion of the review by the Court of Claims, provide the applicant with a compensation determination letter; (3) prescribe and furnish all applications and other forms required to be filed in the office of the Attorney General by the terms of this Act; (4) represent the interests of the State of Illinois in any hearing before the Court of Claims; (5) upon failure to comply with Section 4.2, the Attorney General's office shall have the power to issue subpoenas to compel the production of law enforcement reports maintained by law enforcement agencies; and (6) with the consent of an applicant, request and obtain supporting documentation required to verify the claim, including, but not limited to, documentation from hospitals, health care providers, providers of services to victims or applicants, employers, insurance companies, and other third parties relevant to the claim. The changes made to this Section by this amendatory Act of the 101st General Assembly apply to actions commenced or pending on or after January 1, 2022. (Source: P.A. 103-1037, eff. 8-9-24; 104-563, eff. 1-1-27.) (740 ILCS 45/4.2) (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-563 ) Sec. 4.2. A law enforcement agency shall, within 15 days of receipt of a written request for a police report made to verify that the requirements of a crime victims compensation application under Section 6.1 of this Act have been met, provide the Attorney General's office with the law enforcement agency's full written report of the investigation of the crime for which an application for compensation has been filed. The law enforcement agency may redact the following from the report: names of confidential sources and informants; locations from which law enforcement conduct surveillance; and information related to issues of national security the law enforcement agency provided to or received from the United States Department of Homeland Security or another federal law enforcement agency. The Attorney General's office and a law enforcement agency may agree to the redaction of other information in the report or to the provision of necessary information in another format. Within 15 days of receipt of the request, a law enforcement agency shall respond to a written request from the Attorney General's office for additional information necessary to assist the Attorney General's office in making a recommendation for compensation. An applicant may obtain and provide a law enforcement report to the Attorney General and the Attorney General may proceed with the review of the application. If the copy of the law enforcement report provided by the applicant does not contain all the information the Attorney General needs to move forward with the review of the application, the Attorney General may proceed with requesting from the law enforcement agency the full written report of the investigation. Records that are obtained by the Attorney General's office from a law enforcement agency under this Section for purposes of investigating an application for crime victim compensation shall not be disclosed to the public, including the applicant, by the Attorney General's office. Law enforcement reports or other documentation obtained by the Attorney General's office from an applicant, victim, or third party under this Act for the purposes of investigating an application for crime victim compensation shall not be disclosed to the public or any individual or entity, not including the individual who supplied the report or documentation, by the Attorney General's office. Any records obtained by the Attorney General's office to process the application, including but not limited to applications, documents, and photographs, shall be exempt from disclosure by the Attorney General's office under the Freedom of Information Act. (Source: P.A. 103-1037, eff. 1-1-25 .) (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-563 ) Sec. 4.2. (a) A law enforcement agency shall, within 15 days of receipt of a written request for a police report made to verify that the requirements of a crime victims compensation application under Section 6.1 of this Act have been met, provide the Attorney General's office with the law enforcement agency's full written report of the investigation of the crime for which an application for compensation has been filed. The law enforcement agency may redact the following from the report: names of confidential sources and informants; locations from which law enforcement conduct surveillance; and information related to issues of national security the law enforcement agency provided to or received from the United States Department of Homeland Security or another federal law enforcement agency. The Attorney General's office and a law enforcement agency may agree to the redaction of other information in the report or to the provision of necessary information in another format. Within 15 days of receipt of the request, a law enforcement agency shall respond to a written request from the Attorney General's office for additional information necessary to assist the Attorney General's office in making a recommendation for compensation. (b) An applicant may obtain and provide a law enforcement report to the Attorney General and the Attorney General may proceed with the review of the application. If the copy of the law enforcement report provided by the applicant does not contain all the information the Attorney General needs to move forward with the review of the application, the Attorney General may proceed with requesting from the law enforcement agency the full written report of the investigation. (c) Records that are obtained by the Attorney General's office from a law enforcement agency under this Section for purposes of investigating an application for crime victim compensation shall not be disclosed to the public, including the applicant, by the Attorney General's office. (d) Hospitals, health care providers, providers of services to victims or applicants, employers, insurance companies, and other third parties relevant to the application or claim shall respond in writing to the Attorney General's office request for confirmation, documentation, or other information under this Act within 30 days of receipt of the Attorney General's office request. If the information or documentation provided to the Attorney General does not contain all the information the Attorney General needs to move forward with review of the application or claim, the Attorney General may proceed with requesting further information or documentation. (e) An applicant may obtain and attach to the application documentation from hospitals, health care providers, providers of services, employers, insurance companies, and other third parties relevant to the claim and the Attorney General may proceed with the review of the application. If the documentation provided by the applicant with the application does not contain all the information the Attorney General needs to move forward with the review of the application, the Attorney General may proceed with requesting from the applicant or from applicable third parties additional documentation or information. (f) Law enforcement reports or other documentation obtained by the Attorney General's office from an applicant, victim, or third party under this Act for the purposes of investigating an application for crime victim compensation shall not be disclosed to the public or any individual or entity, not including the individual who supplied the report or documentation, by the Attorney General's office. Any records obtained by the Attorney General's office to process the application, including but not limited to applications, documents, and photographs, shall be exempt from disclosure by the Attorney General's office under the Freedom of Information Act. (Source: P.A. 103-1037, eff. 1-1-25; 104-563, eff. 1-1-27.) (740 ILCS 45/5.1) (from Ch. 70, par. 75.1) Sec. 5.1. (a) Every hospital licensed under the laws of this State shall display prominently in its emergency room posters giving notification of the existence and general provisions of this Act. The posters may be displayed by physical or electronic means. (b) Any law enforcement agency that investigates an offense committed in this State shall inform the victim or any potential applicant contacted during the course of an investigation or arrest regarding the Crime Victims Compensation Program, and advise such persons that any information concerning this Act and the filing of a claim may be obtained from the office of the Attorney General. (c) The Office of the Attorney General shall make available on its website applications, forms, posters, and general information that law enforcement agencies and hospitals may use to comply with this Section. (Source: P.A. 102-4, eff. 4-27-21; 103-1037, eff. 1-1-25 .) (740 ILCS 45/6.1) (from Ch. 70, par. 76.1) (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-563 ) Sec. 6.1. Right to compensation. A person is entitled to compensation under this Act if: (a) Timing. Within 5 years of the occurrence of the crime, or within one year after a criminal charge of a person for an offense, upon which the claim is based, the applicant presents an application, under oath, to the Attorney General that is filed with the Court of Claims and on a form prescribed in accordance with Section 7.1 furnished by the Attorney General. If the person entitled to compensation is under 18 years of age or under other legal disability at the time of the occurrence or is determined by a court to be under a legal disability as a result of the occurrence, he or she may present the application required by this subsection within 3 years after he or she attains the age of 18 years or the disability is removed, as the case may be. Legal disability includes a diagnosis of posttraumatic stress disorder. (a-1) The Attorney General and the Court of Claims may accept an application presented after the period provided in subsection (a) if the Attorney General determines that the applicant had good cause for a delay. (b) Notification. The appropriate law enforcement officials were notified within 72 hours of the perpetration of the crime allegedly causing the death or injury to the victim. If the notification was made more than 72 hours after the perpetration of the crime and the applicant establishes that the notice was timely under the circumstances, the Attorney General and the Court of Claims may extend the time for reporting to law enforcement. For victims of offenses defined in Sections 10-9, 11-1.20, 11-1.30, 11-1.40, 11-1.50, 11-1.60, 12-13, and 12-14 of the Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012, the appropriate law enforcement officials were notified within 7 days of the perpetration of the crime allegedly causing death or injury to the victim or, if the notification was made more than 7 days after the perpetration of the crime, the applicant establishes that the notice was timely under the circumstances. (b-1) If, in lieu of a law enforcement report, the applicant or victim has obtained an order of protection, a civil no contact order, or a stalking no contact order, has presented to a medical facility for medical care or sexual assault evidence collection, has presented to a mental health provider for an independent medical evaluation, or is engaged in a legal proceeding involving a claim that the applicant or victim is a victim of human trafficking or law enforcement use of force, such action shall constitute appropriate notification under this Section. (b-2) For purposes of notification under this Act, a victim who presents to a medical facility shall provide information sufficient to fulfill the requirements of this Section, except that the victim shall not be required to identify the offender to the medical provider. (b-3) An applicant who is filing a claim that a law enforcement officer's use of force caused injury or death, may fulfill the notification requirement by complying with subsection (b), filing a complaint with the Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards Board, filing a lawsuit against a law enforcement officer or department, or presenting evidence that the victim has obtained a settlement or a verdict in a civil suit. An application filed by an individual presenting evidence of a verdict in a civil suit must be filed within one year after the resolution of the civil suit. (b-4) An applicant may provide notification to a mental health provider regarding physical injuries of the victim or for victims of offenses defined in Sections 10-9, 11-1.20, 11-1.30, 11-1.40, 11-1.50, 11-1.60, 11-14.4, 12-3.2, 12-3.3, 12-3.4, 12-7.3, 12-7.4 of the Criminal Code of 2012, psychological injuries resulting from the commission of the crime for which the applicant is filing an application. The provider shall perform an independent medical evaluation and provide the provider's professional opinion as to whether the injuries claimed are consistent with having resulted from the commission of the crime for which the applicant is filing an application. Upon completion of the independent medical evaluation, the mental health provider shall complete a certification form, signed under oath. The form shall be provided by the Office of the Attorney General and contain the following: (1) The provider's name, title, license number and place of employment. (2) Contact information for the provider. (3) The provider's relationship with the applicant. (4) The date the crime was reported to the provider. (5) The reported crime. (6) The date and location of the crime. (7) If there are physical injuries, what injuries that the mental health provider can attest to being present on the day of the reporting if they are consistent with the crime reported to the provider. (8) If there are psychological injuries, whether the provider in his or her professional opinion believes that the injuries presented on the day of the reporting are consistent with the crime reported to the provider. (9) A detailed summary of the incident, as reported. (10) Any documentation or photos that relate to the crime of violence for which the applicant is seeking reimbursement. (c) Cooperation. The applicant has cooperated with law enforcement officials in the apprehension and prosecution of the assailant. If the applicant or victim has obtained an order of protection, a civil no contact order, or a stalking no contact order, has presented to a medical facility for medical care or sexual assault evidence collection, obtained an independent medical examination from a mental health provider as described in subsection (b-4), has taken any of the actions described in subsection (b-3), or is engaged in a legal proceeding involving a claim that the applicant or victim is a victim of human trafficking, such action shall constitute cooperation under this subsection (c). If the victim is under 18 years of age at the time of the commission of the offense, the following shall constitute cooperation under this subsection (c): (1) the applicant or the victim files a police report with a law enforcement agency; (2) a mandated reporter reports the crime to law enforcement; or (3) a person with firsthand knowledge of the crime reports the crime to law enforcement. In evaluating cooperation, the Attorney General and Court of Claims may consider the victim's age, physical condition, psychological state, cultural or linguistic barriers, and compelling health and safety concerns, including, but not limited to, a reasonable fear of retaliation or harm that would jeopardize the well-being of the victim or the victim's family, and giving due consideration to the degree of cooperation that the victim or derivative victim is capable of in light of the presence of any of these factors, or any other factor the Attorney General considers relevant. (d) If the applicant is not barred from receiving compensation under Section 10.1. (e) (Blank). (f) (Blank). (g) (Blank). The changes made to this Section by this amendatory Act of the 101st General Assembly apply to actions commenced or pending on or after January 1, 2022. (Source: P.A. 102-27, eff. 6-25-21; 103-1037, eff. 1-1-25 .) (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-563 ) Sec. 6.1. Right to compensation. A person is entitled to compensation under this Act if: (a) Timing. Within 5 years of the occurrence of the crime, or within one year after a criminal charge of a person for an offense, upon which the claim is based, the applicant presents an application, under oath, to the Attorney General that is filed with the Court of Claims and on a form prescribed in accordance with Section 7.1 furnished by the Attorney General. If the person entitled to compensation is under 18 years of age or under other legal disability at the time of the occurrence or is determined by a court to be under a legal disability as a result of the occurrence, he or she may present the application required by this subsection within 3 years after he or she attains the age of 18 years or the disability is removed, as the case may be. Legal disability includes a diagnosis of posttraumatic stress disorder. (a-1) The Attorney General and the Court of Claims may accept an application presented after the period provided in subsection (a) if the Attorney General determines that the applicant had good cause for a delay. (b) Notification. The appropriate law enforcement officials were notified within 30 days of the perpetration of the crime allegedly causing the death or injury to the victim. If the notification was made more than 30 days after the perpetration of the crime and the applicant establishes that the notice was timely under the circumstances, the Attorney General and the Court of Claims may extend the time for reporting to law enforcement. (b-1) If, in lieu of a law enforcement report, the applicant or victim has obtained an order of protection, a civil no contact order, or a stalking no contact order, has presented to a medical facility for medical care or sexual assault evidence collection, has presented to a mental health provider for mental health care or evaluation, or is engaged in a legal proceeding involving a claim that the applicant or victim is a victim of human trafficking or law enforcement use of force, such action shall constitute appropriate notification under this Section. (b-2) For purposes of notification under this Act, a victim who presents to a medical facility or mental health provider shall provide information sufficient to fulfill the requirements of this Section, except that the victim shall not be required to identify the offender to the medical or mental health provider. (b-3) An applicant who is filing a claim that a law enforcement officer's use of force caused injury or death, may fulfill the notification requirement by complying with subsection (b), filing a complaint with the Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards Board, filing a lawsuit against a law enforcement officer or department, or presenting evidence that the victim has obtained a settlement or a verdict in a civil suit. An application filed by an individual presenting evidence of a verdict in a civil suit must be filed within one year after the resolution of the civil suit. (b-4) An applicant may provide notification to a mental health provider regarding physical or psychological injuries resulting from the commission of the crime for which the applicant is filing an application. The provider shall perform an evaluation and provide the provider's professional opinion as to whether the injuries claimed are consistent with having resulted from the commission of the crime for which the applicant is filing an application. A mental health provider may seek reimbursement for an evaluation under this subsection if the mental health provider is not currently providing treatment to the applicant, and will not seek reimbursement from the program for any additional treatment of the applicant. Otherwise, a mental health provider may conduct an evaluation under this subsection, but is ineligible for reimbursement for performing the evaluation. Upon completion of the evaluation, the mental health provider shall complete a certification form, signed under oath. The form shall be provided by the Office of the Attorney General, be available on its website, and contain the following: (1) The provider's name, title, license number and place of employment. (2) Contact information for the provider. (3) The provider's relationship with the applicant. (4) The date the crime was reported to the provider. (5) The reported crime. (6) The date and location of the crime. (7) If there are physical injuries, what injuries that the mental health provider can attest to being present on the day of the reporting if they are consistent with the crime reported to the provider. (8) If there are psychological injuries, whether the provider in his or her professional opinion believes that the injuries presented on the day of the reporting are consistent with the crime reported to the provider. (9) A detailed summary of the incident, as reported. (10) Any documentation that relates to the crime of violence for which the applicant is seeking reimbursement. (b-5) If a mental health provider who provides a certification form pursuant to subsection (b-4) seeks reimbursement from the program for treatment of the applicant, or an applicant seeks reimbursement for payments made to the mental health provider for treatment, compensation for services provided by the mental health provider shall be limited to Medicare-approved rates. Pursuant to subsection (g) of Section 10.1, a mental health provider may not seek reimbursement for services provided to an applicant if the applicant has not exhausted the benefits reasonably available under any governmental, medical, or health insurance program. (b-6) If an applicant was receiving treatment from a mental health provider before the commission of the crime, and the mental health provider provides a certification form pursuant to subsection (b-4), the mental health provider may only seek reimbursement from the program for treatment that is in addition to the treatment the applicant was already receiving before the commission of the crime. (c) Cooperation. The applicant has cooperated with law enforcement officials in the apprehension and prosecution of the assailant. If the applicant or victim has obtained an order of protection, a civil no contact order, or a stalking no contact order, has presented to a medical facility for medical care or sexual assault evidence collection, obtained an evaluation from a mental health provider as described in subsection (b-4), has taken any of the actions described in subsection (b-3), or is engaged in a legal proceeding involving a claim that the applicant or victim is a victim of human trafficking, such action shall constitute cooperation under this subsection (c). If the victim is under 18 years of age at the time of the commission of the offense, the following shall constitute cooperation under this subsection (c): (1) the applicant or the victim files a police report with a law enforcement agency; (2) a mandated reporter reports the crime to law enforcement; or (3) a person with firsthand knowledge of the crime reports the crime to law enforcement. In evaluating cooperation, the Attorney General and Court of Claims may consider the victim's age, physical condition, psychological state, cultural or linguistic barriers, and compelling health and safety concerns, including, but not limited to, a reasonable fear of retaliation or harm that would jeopardize the well-being of the victim or the victim's family, and giving due consideration to the degree of cooperation that the victim or derivative victim is capable of in light of the presence of any of these factors, or any other factor the Attorney General considers relevant. (d) If the applicant is not barred from receiving compensation under Section 10.1. (e) (Blank). (f) (Blank). (g) (Blank). Furnishing an evaluation as described in subsection (b-4) or furnishing another document as evidence of notification or cooperation under this Section may not be construed to waive any confidentiality or privilege that may exist between the victim or applicant and a third party. The changes made to this Section by this amendatory Act of the 101st General Assembly apply to actions commenced or pending on or after January 1, 2022. (Source: P.A. 103-1037, eff. 1-1-25; 104-563, eff. 1-1-27.) (740 ILCS 45/7.1) (from Ch. 70, par. 77.1) (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-563 ) Sec. 7.1. (a) The application shall set out: (1) the name and address of the victim; (2) if the victim is deceased, the name and address of the applicant and his or her relationship to the victim, the names and addresses of other persons dependent on the victim for their support and the extent to which each is so dependent, and other persons who may be entitled to compensation for a pecuniary loss; (3) the date and nature of the crime on which the application for compensation is based; (4) the date and place where notification under Section 6.1 was given and to whom, or the date and place of issuance of an order of protection, no contact order, evidence of a legal proceeding involving human trafficking, or in cases of a law enforcement officer's use of force, another form of documentation allowable under Section 6.1; (4.5) if the victim is providing supplemental forms of documentation, that documentation, the date the victim obtained that other form of documentation and the type of documentation; (5) the nature and extent of the injuries sustained by the victim, and the names and addresses of those giving medical and hospitalization treatment to the victim; (6) the pecuniary loss to the applicant and to such other persons as are specified under item (2) resulting from the injury or death; (7) the amount of benefits, payments, or awards, if any, payable under: (a) the Workers' Compensation Act, (b) the Dram Shop Act, (c) any claim, demand, or cause of action based upon the crime-related injury or death, (d) the Federal Medicare program, (e) the State Public Aid program, (f) Social Security Administration burial benefits, (g) Veterans administration burial benefits, (h) life, health, accident, vehicle, towing, or liability insurance, (i) the Criminal Victims' Escrow Account Act, (j) the Sexual Assault Survivors Emergency Treatment Act, (k) restitution, or (l) any other source; (8) releases authorizing the surrender to the Court of Claims or Attorney General of reports, documents and other information relating to the matters specified under this Act and rules promulgated in accordance with the Act; (9) such other information as the Court of Claims or the Attorney General reasonably requires. (b) The Attorney General may require that materials substantiating the facts stated in the application be submitted with that application. (b-5) The victim or applicant may provide to the Attorney General a sworn statement by the victim or applicant that attests to the victim's or applicant's experience of a crime or crimes of violence, in addition to documentation required under this Act. If the victim or applicant has additional corroborating evidence beyond those described in this Act, the victim or applicant may provide the following documents: law enforcement report; medical records; confirmation of sexual assault evidence collection; order of protection; civil no contact order, stalking no contact order; photographs; letter from a service provider who serves victims of crime; affidavit from a witness of the crime of violence; court record; military record; or any other corroborating evidence. Such documentation or statement may be used to supplement required documentation to verify the incident but is not required. If an applicant is seeking an exception under subsection (b) or (c-1) of Section 6.1, the applicant shall provide any additional documentation, information, or statement that substantiates the facts stated in the application. (c) An applicant, on his or her own motion, may file an amended application or additional substantiating materials to correct inadvertent errors or omissions at any time before the original application has been disposed of by the Court of Claims or the Attorney General. In either case, the filing of additional information or of an amended application shall be considered for the purpose of this Act to have been filed at the same time as the original application. For claims submitted on or after January 1, 2022, an amended application or additional substantiating materials to correct inadvertent errors or omissions may be filed at any time before the original application is disposed of by the Attorney General or the Court of Claims. (d) Determinations submitted by the Attorney General to the Court of Claims shall be available to the Court of Claims for review. The Attorney General shall provide the sources and evidence relied upon as a basis for a compensation determination. (e) The changes made to this Section by this amendatory Act of the 101st General Assembly apply to actions commenced or pending on or after January 1, 2022. (Source: P.A. 102-27, eff. 6-25-21; 102-905, eff. 1-1-23; 103-1037, eff. 1-1-25 .) (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-563 ) Sec. 7.1. (a) The application form furnished by the Office of the Attorney General and published on its website shall include fields for the applicant to set out: (1) the name and address of the victim; (2) if the victim is deceased, the name and address of the applicant and his or her relationship to the victim, the names and addresses of other persons dependent on the victim for their support and the extent to which each is so dependent, and other persons who may be entitled to compensation for a pecuniary loss; (3) the date and nature of the crime on which the application for compensation is based; (4) the date and place where notification under Section 6.1 was given and to whom, or the date and place of issuance of an order of protection, no contact order, evidence of a legal proceeding involving human trafficking, or in cases of a law enforcement officer's use of force, another form of documentation allowable under Section 6.1; (4.5) if the victim is providing supplemental forms of documentation, that documentation, the date the victim obtained that other form of documentation and the type of documentation; (5) the nature and extent of the injuries sustained by the victim, and the names and addresses of those giving medical and hospitalization treatment to the victim; (6) the pecuniary loss to the applicant and to such other persons as are specified under item (2) resulting from the injury or death; (7) the amount of benefits, payments, or awards, if any, payable under: (a) the Workers' Compensation Act, (b) the Dram Shop Act, (c) any claim, demand, or cause of action based upon the crime-related injury or death, (d) the Federal Medicare program, (e) the State Public Aid program, (f) Social Security Administration burial benefits, (g) Veterans administration burial benefits, (h) life, health, accident, vehicle, towing, or liability insurance, (i) the Criminal Victims' Escrow Account Act, (j) the Sexual Assault Survivors Emergency Treatment Act, (k) restitution, or (l) any other source; (8) releases authorizing the surrender to the Court of Claims or Attorney General of reports, documents and other information relating to the matters specified under this Act and rules promulgated in accordance with the Act; (9) such other information as the Court of Claims or the Attorney General reasonably requires; (10) whether the applicant is applying for an emergency award under Section 10.2. (b) The Attorney General may require that materials substantiating the facts stated in the application be submitted with that application. (b-5) The victim or applicant may provide to the Attorney General a sworn statement by the victim or applicant that attests to the victim's or applicant's experience of a crime or crimes of violence, in addition to documentation required under this Act. If the victim or applicant has additional corroborating evidence beyond those described in this Act, the victim or applicant may provide the following documents: law enforcement report; medical records; confirmation of sexual assault evidence collection; order of protection; civil no contact order, stalking no contact order; photographs; letter from a service provider who serves victims of crime; affidavit from a witness of the crime of violence; court record; military record; or any other corroborating evidence. Such documentation or statement may be used to supplement required documentation to verify the incident but is not required. If an applicant is seeking an exception under subsection (b) or (c-1) of Section 6.1, the applicant shall provide any additional documentation, information, or statement that substantiates the facts stated in the application. (c) An applicant, on his or her own motion, may file an amended application or additional substantiating materials to correct inadvertent errors or omissions at any time before the original application has been disposed of by the Court of Claims or the Attorney General. In either case, the filing of additional information or of an amended application shall be considered for the purpose of this Act to have been filed at the same time as the original application. For claims submitted on or after January 1, 2022, an amended application or additional substantiating materials to correct inadvertent errors or omissions may be filed at any time before the original application is disposed of by the Attorney General or the Court of Claims. (d) Determinations submitted by the Attorney General to the Court of Claims shall be available to the Court of Claims for review. The Attorney General shall provide the sources and evidence relied upon as a basis for a compensation determination. (e) The changes made to this Section by this amendatory Act of the 101st General Assembly apply to actions commenced or pending on or after January 1, 2022. (Source: P.A. 103-1037, eff. 1-1-25; 104-563, eff. 1-1-27.) (740 ILCS 45/8.1) (from Ch. 70, par. 78.1) (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-563 ) Sec. 8.1. If an applicant does not submit all materials substantiating his or her claim as requested of him or her by the Attorney General, the Attorney General shall notify the applicant in writing of the specific additional items of information or materials required and that he or she has 45 days in which to furnish those items to the Attorney General. The Attorney General shall report an applicant's failure to comply within 45 days of the foregoing notice to the Court of Claims. No award of compensation shall be made for any portion of the applicant's claim that is not substantiated by the applicant. An applicant may request an extension of time from the Attorney General prior to the expiration of the 45-day period. After an application has been filed, an applicant's failure to respond to communication from the Office of the Attorney General or the Court of Claims or a failure to provide necessary documentation to substantiate the request for compensation may result in the claim being closed without compensation. An applicant may submit to have the claim reopened when the applicant is able to provide missing information and communicate regarding the claim. Failure to update the Office of the Attorney General with changes to the applicant's contact information after the application is submitted to the Office of the Attorney General may result in applications that are not filed with the Court of Claims or claims that are closed without compensation. (Source: P.A. 102-27, eff. 1-1-22; 103-1037, eff. 1-1-25 .) (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-563 ) Sec. 8.1. If an applicant does not submit all materials substantiating his or her claim as requested of him or her by the Attorney General, and the Attorney General is unable to otherwise obtain such materials within 45 days of receiving the claim, the Attorney General shall notify the applicant in writing of the specific additional items of information or materials required and that he or she has 45 days in which to furnish those items to the Attorney General. The Attorney General shall report an applicant's failure to comply within 45 days of the foregoing notice to the Court of Claims. No award of compensation shall be made for any portion of the applicant's claim that is not substantiated by the applicant. An applicant may request an extension of time from the Attorney General prior to the expiration of the 45-day period. After an application has been filed, an applicant's failure to respond to communication from the Office of the Attorney General or the Court of Claims or a failure to provide necessary documentation to substantiate the request for compensation may result in the claim being closed without compensation. An applicant may submit to have the claim reopened when the applicant is able to provide missing information and communicate regarding the claim. Failure to update the Office of the Attorney General with changes to the applicant's contact information after the application is submitted to the Office of the Attorney General may result in applications that are not filed with the Court of Claims or claims that are closed without compensation. (Source: P.A. 103-1037, eff. 1-1-25; 104-563, eff. 1-1-27.) (740 ILCS 45/9.1) (from Ch. 70, par. 79.1) Sec. 9.1. In determining whether an applicant is entitled to compensation, the Attorney General and Court of Claims shall consider the facts stated in the application and other material and information. However, the Attorney General and Court of Claims need not consider whether the alleged assailant has been apprehended. In reviewing a determination by the Attorney General, the Court of Claims shall consider the facts stated in the application and
other material and information submitted and the report of the Attorney
General. (Source: P.A. 102-27, eff. 1-1-22 .) (740 ILCS 45/10.1) (from Ch. 70, par. 80.1) Sec. 10.1. Award of compensation. The awarding of compensation and the amount of compensation to which an applicant and other persons are entitled shall be based on the following factors: (a) Each victim may be compensated for his or her pecuniary loss up to the maximum amount allowable. (b) Each dependent may be compensated for loss of support, as provided in paragraph (15) of subsection (h) of Section 2. (c) Any person, even though not dependent upon the victim for his or her support, may be compensated for reasonable expenses of the victim to the extent to which he or she has paid or become obligated to pay such expenses and only after compensation for reasonable funeral, medical and hospital expenses of the victim have been awarded may compensation be made for reasonable expenses of the victim incurred for psychological treatment of a mental or emotional condition caused or aggravated by the crime. Persons that have paid or become obligated to pay expenses for a victim shall share the maximum award with the amount divided in proportion to the amount of the actual loss among those entitled to compensation. (d) Except for claims listed under subsection (d-1) of this Section, an award shall be reduced or denied according to the extent to which the victim's injury or death was caused by provocation or incitement by the victim or the victim assisting, attempting, or committing a criminal act. (d-1) For claims that a law enforcement officer's use of force resulted in injury or death to a victim, an award shall be reduced or denied to the extent by which the victim's behavior posed an imminent threat of death or serious bodily injury to the law enforcement officer or another person and such behavior of the victim was a direct and proximate cause of the victim's injury or death. If a police report has been made, the police report shall not be the sole factor if the Attorney General or Court of Claims has identified reliable information that conflicts with the police report. (d-2) A person who is criminally responsible for the crime upon which a claim is based or an accomplice of such person shall not be eligible to receive an award with respect to such claim. A member of the family of a person criminally responsible for the crime upon which a claim is based or a member of the family of an accomplice of such person shall be eligible to receive an award, unless the person criminally responsible will receive substantial economic benefit or unjust enrichment from the compensation. In no event shall an applicant be denied compensation solely because of the applicant's or the victim's familial relationship with the offender or because of the sharing of a dwelling by the victim or applicant and the offender. (d-3) A denial or reduction shall not automatically bar the survivors of homicide victims from receiving compensation for counseling, crime scene cleanup, relocation, funeral or burial costs, and loss of support. (e) An award shall be reduced by the amount of benefits, payments or awards payable under those sources which are required to be listed under item (7) of Section 7.1(a) and any other sources except annuities, pension plans, Federal Social Security payments payable to dependents of the victim and the net proceeds of the first $25,000 of life insurance that would inure to the benefit of the applicant, which the applicant or any other person dependent for the support of a deceased victim, as the case may be, has received or to which he or she is entitled as a result of injury to or death of the victim. (f) A final award shall not exceed $10,000 for a crime committed prior to September 22, 1979, $15,000 for a crime committed on or after September 22, 1979 and prior to January 1, 1986, $25,000 for a crime committed on or after January 1, 1986 and prior to August 7, 1998, $27,000 for a crime committed on or after August 7, 1998 and prior to August 7, 2022, or $45,000 per victim for a crime committed on or after August 7, 2022. For any applicant who is not a victim, if the total pecuniary loss is greater than the maximum amount allowed, the award shall be divided in proportion to the amount of actual loss among those entitled to compensation who are not victims. (g) Compensation under this Act is a secondary source of compensation and the applicant must show that he or she has exhausted the benefits reasonably available under the Criminal Victims' Escrow Account Act or any governmental or medical or health insurance programs, including, but not limited to, Workers' Compensation, the Federal Medicare program, the State Public Aid program, Social Security Administration burial benefits, and Veterans Administration burial benefits, and life, health, accident, full vehicle coverage (including towing insurance, if available), or liability insurance. Crowdfunding resources available to applicants are not considered collateral sources of payment, regardless of any statements made about what expenses the crowdfunding resources will be used to pay. (Source: P.A. 102-27, eff. 1-1-22; 102-905, eff. 1-1-23; 103-564, eff. 11-17-23; 103-1037, eff. 1-1-25 .) (740 ILCS 45/10.2) (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-563 ) Sec. 10.2. Emergency awards. (a) If it appears, prior to taking action on an application, that the claim
is one for which compensation is probable, and undue hardship will result to
the applicant if immediate payment is not made, the Attorney General may
recommend and the Court may make an emergency award of compensation to the
applicant, pending a final decision in the case. Emergency awards may be issued to the applicant for the purpose of paying funeral and burial expenses directly to a funeral home and for relocation expenses incurred by an applicant. The
amount of emergency
compensation shall be deducted from any final award made as a result of the
claim.
The full amount of the emergency award if no final award is made shall be
repaid by the applicant to the State of Illinois. (b) Emergency award applicants must satisfy all requirements under Section
6.1 of this Act. (Source: P.A. 102-27, eff. 1-1-22 .) (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-563 ) Sec. 10.2. Emergency awards. (a) If it appears, prior to taking action on an application, that the claim is one for which compensation is probable, and undue hardship will result to the applicant if immediate payment is not made, the Attorney General may recommend and the Court may make an emergency award of compensation to the applicant, pending a final decision in the case. The Court shall issue a voucher for payment to the Comptroller of an emergency award after receiving notice of the decision to grant the emergency award. If the Comptroller is not able to release the voucher for payment within 10 business days of receiving a voucher for payment from the Court, the Comptroller shall notify the Court of Claims. Emergency awards may be issued to the applicant for the purpose of paying funeral and burial expenses directly to a funeral home for expenses that have been incurred or that the applicant has been quoted, and for relocation expenses incurred or due to be incurred by an applicant. The amount of emergency compensation shall be deducted from any final award made as a result of the claim. The full amount of the emergency award if no final award is made shall be repaid by the applicant to the State of Illinois. If the amount of emergency compensation exceeds the actual amount the applicant incurs, the difference shall be repaid to the State. (b) Emergency award applicants must satisfy all requirements under Section 6.1 of this Act. (c) The Office of the Attorney General shall include a designated section in the application form described in Section 7.1 for the applicant to request an emergency award. (Source: P.A. 104-563, eff. 1-1-27.) (740 ILCS 45/11.1) (from Ch. 70, par. 81.1) Sec. 11.1. The Court of Claims may provide for the payment of an award
in a lump sum or in installments. (Source: P.A. 81-1013.) (740 ILCS 45/12) (from Ch. 70, par. 82) Sec. 12. No fee may be charged to the applicant in any proceeding under
this Act except as provided in this Act. If the applicant is represented
by counsel or some other duly authorized agent in making application under
this Act or in any further proceedings provided for in this Act, that counsel
or agent may receive no payment for his or her services in preparing or presenting
the application before the Court of Claims or the Attorney General. He or she may, however, charge fees
to the applicant for representing him or her at a hearing provided for in this
Act but only in such an amount as the Court of Claims or the Attorney General determines to be reasonable. (Source: P.A. 102-27, eff. 1-1-22 .) (740 ILCS 45/12.1) (from Ch. 70, par. 82.1) Sec. 12.1. The Court of Claims may, after a hearing, make an award to
a person who has filed an application or any other person it finds is entitled
to compensation, including the guardian or conservator of a minor or incompetent,
based upon the application, the other information and materials submitted
with the application, and the report of the Attorney General. (Source: P.A. 102-27, eff. 1-1-22 .) (740 ILCS 45/13.1) (from Ch. 70, par. 83.1) Sec. 13.1. (a) A hearing before a Commissioner of the Court of Claims shall
be held for those claims in which: (1) the Court of Claims on its own motion sets a hearing; (2) the Attorney General petitions the Court of Claims for a hearing; (3) a claim has been disposed of without a hearing and an applicant has been denied compensation or has been awarded compensation which he or she thinks is inadequate and he or she petitions the Court of Claims for a hearing within 30 days of the date of issuance of the determination sought to be reviewed.  The petition shall set forth the reasons for which review is sought and a recitation of any additional evidence the applicant desires to present to the Court. A copy of the petition shall be provided to the Attorney General. Documentation to be presented at a hearing of the Court of Claims must be submitted to the Attorney General at least 10 working days before the hearing date.  Failure to do so may result in a continuance of the hearing. (b) At hearings held under this Act before Commissioners of the Court
of Claims, any statement, document, information or matter may be received
in evidence if in the opinion of the Court or its Commissioner such evidence
would contribute to reaching a decision on the claim, regardless of whether
such evidence would be admissible in a court of law. (c) Petition for rehearing. (1) The Court of Claims may order a rehearing of a matter decided after a hearing, if, in reaching its decision: (A) the court has overlooked, misapplied, or failed to consider a statute, decision, or directly controlling principle; (B) the court has overlooked or misconceived some material fact or proposition of law; or (C) the court has overlooked or misconceived a material question in the case. (2)     A rehearing may not be granted if it is sought merely for the purpose of obtaining a reargument on and reconsideration of matters which have already been fully considered by the court. (3)  The petition shall specify which of the grounds in paragraph (1) of this subsection (c)  exists and shall specifically designate that portion of the opinion, or the record, or that particular authority, which the petitioner wishes the court to consider.  A copy of the petition shall be served on the opposing party.  No petition for rehearing shall exceed 10 typewritten pages.  No memoranda or briefs in support of a petition for rehearing, and no response to a petition for rehearing, shall be received unless requested by the court. (Source: P.A. 102-27, eff. 1-1-22 .) (740 ILCS 45/14.1) (from Ch. 70, par. 84.1) Sec. 14.1. (a) Hearings shall be open to the public unless the Court of
 Claims determines that a closed hearing should be held because: (1) the alleged assailant has not been brought to trial and a public hearing would adversely affect either his apprehension or his trial; (2) the offense allegedly perpetrated against the victim is one defined in Section 11-1.20, 11-1.30, 11-1.40, 12-13, 12-14, or 12-14.1 of the Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012 and the interests of the victim or of persons dependent on his support require that the public be excluded from the hearing; (3) the victim or the alleged assailant is a minor; or (4) the interests of justice would be frustrated, rather than furthered, if the hearing were open to the public. (b) A transcript shall be kept of the hearings held before the Court of
Claims.  No part of the transcript of any hearing before the Court of Claims
may be used for any purpose in a criminal proceeding except in the prosecution
of a person alleged to have perjured himself in his testimony before the
Court of Claims.  A copy of the transcript may be furnished to the applicant
upon his written request to the court reporter, accompanied by payment of
a charge established
 by the Court of Claims in accordance with the prevailing commercial charge
for a duplicate transcript.  Where the interests of justice require, the
Court of Claims may refuse to disclose the names of victims or other material
in the transcript by which the identity of the victim could be discovered. (Source: P.A. 96-1551, eff. 7-1-11; 97-1150, eff. 1-25-13.) (740 ILCS 45/15) (from Ch. 70, par. 85) Sec. 15. At the conclusion
of a hearing held under this Act, the Court of Claims shall enter an order
stating (1) its findings of fact, (2) its decision as to whether or not
compensation is due under this Act, (3) the amount of compensation, if any,
which is due under this Act, (4) whether disbursement of the compensation
awarded is to be made in a lump sum or in periodic payments, and (5) the
person or persons to whom the compensation should be paid. (Source: P.A. 102-27, eff. 1-1-22 .) (740 ILCS 45/16) (from Ch. 70, par. 86) Sec. 16. The Court of Claims, on its own motion or upon the written request
of any applicant, may modify an award of compensation made under this Act
or reconsider a denial of compensation.  No hearing need be held, however,
unless the written request states facts which were not known to the applicant or by the
exercise of reasonable diligence could not have been ascertained by him or her
at the time of the entry of the order or determination sought to be modified and which would
have directly affected whether or not compensation
should be awarded and, if so, the amount of that compensation. (Source: P.A. 102-27, eff. 1-1-22 .) (740 ILCS 45/17) (from Ch. 70, par. 87) Sec. 17. Subrogation. (a) The Court of Claims may award compensation on
the condition
that the applicant subrogate to the State his rights to collect damages
from the assailant or any third party who may be liable in damages to the
applicant.  In such a case the Attorney General may, on behalf of the State,
bring an action against an assailant or third party for money damages, but must
first notify the applicant and give him an opportunity to participate in
the prosecution of the action.  The excess of the amount recovered in such
action over the amount of the compensation offered and accepted or awarded
under this Act plus costs of the action and attorneys' fees actually incurred
shall be paid to the applicant. (b) Nothing in this Act affects the right of the applicant to seek civil
damages from the assailant and any other party, but that applicant must
give written notice to the Attorney General within 10 days after the making of a claim or
the filing of an action for such damages, and within 10 days after  the conclusion of the claim or action.  The applicant must attach to the written notice a copy of the complaint, settlement agreement, jury verdict, or judgment. Failure to timely notify the
Attorney General of such claims and actions is a willful omission of fact and
the applicant thereby  becomes subject to the provisions of Section 20 of this Act. (c) The State has a charge for the amount of compensation paid under this
Act upon all claims or causes of action against an assailant and
any other party to recover for the injuries or death of a victim which were
the basis for that payment of compensation.  At the time compensation is
ordered to be paid under this Act, the Court of Claims shall give written
notice of this charge to the applicant.  The charge attaches to any verdict or
judgment entered and to any money or property which is recovered
on account of the claim or cause of action against the assailant
or any other party after the notice is given.  On petition filed by the
Attorney General on behalf of the State or by the applicant, the circuit
court, on written notice to all interested parties, shall adjudicate the
right of the parties and enforce the charge.  This subsection does not affect
the priority of a lien under "AN ACT creating attorney's lien and for
enforcement of same", filed June 16, 1909, as amended. Only the Court of Claims may reduce the State's lien under this Act.  The Court of Claims may consider the nature and extent of the injury, economic loss, settlements, hospital costs, physician costs, attorney's fees and costs, and all other appropriate costs.  The burden of producing evidence sufficient to support the exercise by the Court of Claims of its discretion to reduce the amount of a proven charge sought to be enforced against the recovery shall rest with the party seeking such reduction. The charges of the State described in this Section, however, shall take priority over all other liens and charges existing under the laws of the State of Illinois. (d) Where compensation is awarded under this Act and the person receiving
same also receives any sum required to be, and that has not been deducted
under Section 10.1, he shall refund to the State the amount of compensation
paid to him which would have been deducted at the time the award was made. (e) An amount not to exceed 25% of all money recovered under subsections
(b) or (c) of this Section shall be placed in the Violent Crime Victims
Assistance Fund to assist with costs related to recovery
efforts.  "Recovery efforts" means those activities that are directly
attributable to obtaining restitution, civil suit recoveries, and
other reimbursements. (f) The applicant must give written notice to the Attorney General within 10 days after an offender is ordered by a court to pay restitution.  The applicant shall attach a copy of the restitution order or judgment to the written notice.  Failure to timely notify the Attorney General of court-ordered restitution is a willful omission of fact and the applicant thereby becomes subject to the provisions of Section 20 of this Act.  The Attorney General may file a written copy of the Court of Claims' decision awarding crime victims compensation in a criminal case in which  the offender has been ordered to pay restitution for the victim's expenses incurred as a result of the same criminal conduct.  Upon the filing of the order, the circuit court clerk shall send restitution payments directly to the compensation program for any paid expense reflected in the Court of Claims' decision. (Source: P.A. 97-817, eff. 1-1-13; 98-756, eff. 7-16-14.) (740 ILCS 45/18) (from Ch. 70, par. 88) Sec. 18. Claims against awards. (a) An award is not subject to
enforcement,
attachment, garnishment, or other process, except that an award is not exempt
from a claim of a creditor to the extent that he or she provided products,
services, or accommodations the costs of which are included in the award. (b) An assignment or agreement to assign a right to compensation for loss
accruing in the future is unenforceable, except: (1) an assignment of a right to compensation for work loss to secure payment of maintenance or child support; or (2) an assignment of a right to compensation to the extent of the cost of products, services, or accommodations necessitated by the injury or death on which the claim is based and are provided or to be provided by the assignee. (c) The Attorney General may determine or the court may order that all or a portion of an award be paid jointly
to the applicant and another person or solely and directly to another
person to the extent that such other person
has provided products, services or accommodations, the costs of which are
included in the award, or to another person to the extent that such other person paid or became obligated to pay expenses incurred by the victim or applicant. (d) If an award under subsection (c) of this Section is offset by the
Comptroller, pursuant to the Uncollected State Claims Act, the intended
individual or entity must credit the applicant's or
victim's account for the amount ordered by the Court of Claims, and the
intended individual or entity is
prohibited from pursuing payment from the applicant or victim
for any portion that is offset.  The Comptroller shall provide notice as
provided in  Section 10.05 of the State Comptroller Act. (Source: P.A. 102-27, eff. 1-1-22 .) (740 ILCS 45/18.5) Sec. 18.5. Restrictions on collection of debts incurred by crime victims. (a) Within 10 business days after the filing of a claim, the Office of the Attorney General shall issue an applicant a written notice of the crime victim compensation claim and inform the applicant that the applicant may provide a copy of the written notice to vendors to have debt collection activities cease while the claim is pending. (b) An applicant may provide a copy of the written notice to a vendor waiting for payment of a related debt. A vendor that receives notice of the filing of a claim under this Act with the Court of Claims or Attorney General must cease all debt collection activities against the applicant for a related debt. A vendor that assists an applicant to complete or submit an application for compensation or a vendor that submits a bill to the Office of the Attorney General has constructive notice of the filing of the claim and must not engage in debt collection activities against the applicant for a related debt. If the Court of Claims or Attorney General awards compensation for the related debt, a vendor shall not engage in debt collection activities while payment is pending. If the Court of Claims denies compensation for a vendor's bill for the related debt or a portion thereof, the vendor may not engage in debt collection activities until 45 days after the date of notice from the Court of Claims or the Attorney General denying compensation in whole or in part. (c) A vendor that has notice of a compensation claim may submit a written request to the Attorney General for notification of the Attorney General's decision involving a related debt. The Attorney General shall provide notification of payment or denial of payment within 30 days of its decision. (d) The statute of limitations for collection of a related debt is tolled upon the filing of the claim with the Court of Claims and all civil actions in court against the applicant for a related debt shall be stayed until 45 days after the Attorney General denies or the Court of Claims enters an order denying compensation for the related debt or portion thereof. (d-5) Any vendor that violates the provisions of this Section may be held liable to the affected victim or applicant in an action brought in a court of competent jurisdiction for such legal or equitable relief as may be appropriate to effectuate the purposes of this Section. (e) As used in this Section: (1) "Crime victim" means a victim of a violent crime or an applicant as defined in this Act. (2) "Debt collection activities" means: (A) communicating with, harassing, or intimidating the crime victim for payment, including, but not limited to: (i) repeatedly calling or writing to the crime victim or applicant or his or her relatives or employers; (ii) calling or writing to the victim or applicant or his or her relatives or employers after an explicit request to cease contact; and (iii) threatening to refer the related debt to a debt collection agency or to an attorney for collection, enforcement, or the filing of other process; (B) contacting a credit ratings agency or distributing information to affect the crime victim's credit rating as a result of the related debt; (C) referring a bill, or portion thereof, to a collection agency or attorney for collection action against the crime victim; or (D) taking any other action adverse to the crime victim or his or her family on account of the related debt. "Debt collection activities" does not include billing insurance or other government programs, routine inquiries about coverage by private insurance or government programs, or routine billing that indicates that the amount is not due pending resolution of the crime victim compensation claim. (3) "Related debt" means a debt or expense for hospital, medical, dental, or counseling services incurred by or on behalf of a crime victim as a direct result of the crime. (4) "Vendor" includes persons, providers of service, vendors' agents, debt collection agencies, and attorneys hired by a vendor. (Source: P.A. 102-27, eff. 1-1-22; 103-1037, eff. 8-9-24.) (740 ILCS 45/20) (from Ch. 70, par. 90) Sec. 20. (a) In addition to any other civil liability or criminal penalties
provided by law, a person who the Court of Claims or the Attorney General finds has willfully misstated
or omitted facts relevant to the determination of whether compensation is due
under this Act or of the amount of that compensation, whether in making
application for compensation or in the further proceedings provided for
in this Act, shall be denied compensation under this Act. (b) A person who is convicted of having willfully misstated or omitted
facts relevant to the determination of whether compensation is due under
this Act or of the amount of that compensation, whether in making application
for compensation or in the further proceedings provided for in this Act,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. (Source: P.A. 102-27, eff. 1-1-22 .) Original text Rate this translation Your feedback will be used to help improve Google Translate