Compensation for Victims of Violent Crimes External Link Disclaimer You are about to visit a site not owned by Illinois Secretary of State. Please note that Illinois Secretary of State is not responsible for any information, content, or products on third-party sites. This linked site is not bound by the Illinois Secretary of State Privacy Policy . Continue Cancel Compensation for Victims of Violent Crimes To assist with the devastating impact of violent crimes, the Crime Victims Compensation Program grants financial assistance to eligible victims for certain expenses. Violent Crimes Covered Domestic violence Sexual assault and abuse Homicide Involuntary manslaughter and reckless homicide Kidnapping Exploitation of a child, including pornography Assault and battery Arson Driving under the influence Stalking $45,000 Award Cap For uncovered expenses (as of Aug. 7, 2022) Medical expenses — hospital, doctor and nursing Rehabilitation services Counseling, psychiatry services for victim and family Lost wages of up to $2,400 per month Funeral and burial expenses of up to $10,000 Crime scene cleanup, relocation, loss of clothing or bedding taken for evidence Eligibility Requirements You must report the crime within 72 hours (unless unable to do so) and cooperate with law enforcement. You must complete an application within five years of the crime or one year of charges being filed. Claims and Appeals File a Claim with the Illinois Attorney General The Illinois Attorney General receives applications, conducts investigations, and makes claim decisions for the Crime Victims Compensation Program. For more information on how to apply, visit the Crime Victim Compensation section of the Illinois Attorney General’s website or call the Illinois Attorney General’s office at 800-228-3368. File an Appeal with the Illinois Court of Claims The Illinois Court of Claims manages grant funds and payment of Crime Victims Compensation awards as recommended by the Illinois Attorney General. The Court also oversees appeals of the Crime Victims Compensation decision issued by the Illinois Attorney General. For cases filed prior to December 14, 2025 , to appeal a decision issued by the Illinois Attorney General, you must: Submit a written request for an appeal hearing within 30 days from the date on your determination letter. Include: 1) Your case number; 2) An explanation why you are seeking a review; and 3) Additional evidence that exists to support your appeal. Mail it to: Illinois Court of Claims 630 S. College St. Springfield, IL 62756 To file a request for an appeal hearing on claims filed after December 14, 2025 , and beginning with case number 2026CV2020 and thereafter, please follow the below steps: Create an account in the electronic filing system . Once an account has been created, please email the ClerkofCoC@ilsos.gov requesting to be added to your case including the case number. Once the request has been made, the Clerk’s office will review the request and make any necessary additions. If it is determined you should be added to the case, you will log into the e-file system and submit the CV Appeal form and any documentation used to substantiate your claim as an “existing case filing” and “submit to the Court.” (Please refer to the E-file Resources to assist you with filing). You will be notified via email when any action takes place on your claim with the ability to log into the system to check the status/file. Notices Persons who speak English as a second language and are applicants or recipients of programs receiving federal financial assistance are afforded language translation and interpretation services at no charge to the applicant or recipient. Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq., prohibits discrimination based on race, color, or national origin in programs receiving federal financial assistance. If you believe you have been discriminated against in a program of any institution that receives federal financial assistance, you should immediately contact the federal agency providing such assistance. Back to Top