Crime Changes Things In Ways You Might Not Expect...
...We Can Help

CRIME VICTIMS
COMPENSATION PROGRAM

Illinois Attorney General
Violence Prevention and Crime Victims Services Division

For more information, contact the
Crime Victims Assistance Line:

1-800-228-3368
Individuals with hearing or speech disabilities can reach us by using the 7-1-1 relay service.

Visit our website at:
IllinoisAttorneyGeneral.gov

Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq., prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin
in programs receiving federal financial assistance. Persons who speak English as a second language who are applicants or recipients
to programs receiving federal financial assistance, will be afforded language translation and interpretation services at no charge to the
applicant or recipient. If you believe you have been discriminated against in a program of any institution which receives Federal financial
assistance, you should immediately contact the Federal agency providing such assistance.

Crime Victims
Compensation Program
The Crime Victims Compensation Program provides financial reimbursement to victims of violent
crime who meet certain eligibility requirements. The program is governed by the Crime Victims
Compensation Act, 740 ILCS 45/1 et seq.

What are the basic qualification requirements?
• File an application within 5 years of the crime date (3 years after age 18 for minors or 3
years from removal of a disability).
• Notify law enforcement within 72 hours of the crime’s occurrence. In cases of sexual
assault, sexual abuse, or human trafficking, notify law enforcement within 7 days.
• Cooperate with law enforcement to arrest and prosecute the offender.
• The following also satisfies the notification and cooperation requirements:
○ Obtaining a Plenary Order of Protection, Civil No Contact Order or Stalking No
Contact Order
○ Having a sexual assault evidence collection kit performed
○ Engaging in a legal proceeding involving a claim that the applicant is a human
trafficking victim
○ Medical treatment at a Medical Facility
○ Report of psychological injuries to a Mental Health Provider
○ Notification of physical injuries to a Mental Health Provider
○ Notification and Cooperation criteria for use of force victims
• The victim must not be the offender in the criminal act and must not have provoked or
incited the crime.
Applications submitted outside the prescribed eligibility window may be accepted if the
Attorney General determines that the applicant had good cause for a delay.

What violent crimes are compensable with the program?
Crime of Violence includes but is not limited to the following:
Arson • First Degree Murder • Involuntary Manslaughter • Reckless Homicide • Assault & Aggravated Assault
• Battery & Aggravated Battery • Human Trafficking • Kidnapping • Child Pornography • Aggravated Criminal
Sexual Abuse • Criminal Sexual Assault • Stalking • Domestic Battery • Driving While Under the Influence •
Violations of Protective Orders (Domestic Violence Orders of Protection, Civil No Contact Orders, and
Stalking No Contact Orders) • Hate Crimes • Hit and Run of a Pedestrian/Person • Hit and Run of Person
Operating Vehicle Moved Solely by Human Power or Using a Mobility Device
(For a list of all eligible crimes of violence see 740 ILCS 45/2(c))

What types of expenses may the Crime Victims Compensation Program pay?
Accessibility to Real and
Personal Property
Mental Health Treatment
(Counseling)
Crime Scene Clean Up
Funeral/Burial/Cremation/
Headstone $10,000 cap
Locks, Doors, and Windows
Loss of Earning/Future
Earnings $2,400/mo. or net
monthly earnings, if less

Loss of Support

Temporary Lodging or
Relocation

Loss of Tuition
Medical/Hospital/Dental
Replacement: Clothing and
Bedding used as Evidence

Trafficking Tattoo Removal
Transportation
Towing and Storage

Replacement: Prosthetic
Appliance

Replacement: Eyeglasses &
Hearing Aids

Replacement Services loss
$1,250 per month

Legal Fees Up to $3,500
necessary solely because of
the crime

The Illinois Crime Victims Compensation Program offers reimbursement up to $45,000 ($27,000 for crimes
before 8/7/22) for expenses incurred by eligible victims as a result of a violent crime.

Who can apply and what type of compensation can be received?

When the eligible applicant is:
Person killed or injured
Spouse, parent, or child of a person killed
or injured in this State
Person living in a dwelling in a relationship
substantially similar to that of a parent,
spouse, or child
Person killed or injured while attempting to
aid a victim
Person killed or injured in Illinois while
assisting law enforcement
Personal witness to a crime
Person called as a witness by the
prosecution to establish a nexus
An Illinois resident injured in a country
without a Compensation Program

Parent, spouse, or child of a deceased
person whose body is dismembered or
whose remains are desecrated as the result
of a crime of violence
An individual who is injured or killed in
an incident in which a law enforcement
officer’s use of force caused bodily harm or
death to that individual
An adult who is physically or mentally
incapacitated if their guardian or caretaker
is a statutorily defined victim
The legal guardian of a minor or of a
person under legal disability that is a
statutory victim. (Must be the Legal
guardian of the minor or disabled person
prior to the date of the crime)

Compensation Available:
All types of compensation resulting from the crime. Refer to list above.

When the eligible applicant is:
Person who is the grandparent, grandchild,
brother, sister, half-brother or half-sister of
a person killed or injured in the state as a
result of a violent crime

A person who, at the time the crime
occurred, resided in the same dwelling as
the victim

Compensation Available:
•
•
•

Psychological treatment of a mental or emotional condition caused or aggravated by the crime,
Loss of earnings for time off from work necessary to provide full time care for the injured victim,
Relocation if the crime occurred within the dwelling of the applicant.

When the eligible applicant is:
Any person who was in a dating relationship with a person killed in this State as a result of a crime
of violence

Compensation Available:
Psychological treatment of a mental or emotional condition caused or aggravated by the crime

When the eligible applicant is:
A person who assumes a legal obligation or voluntarily pays for a victim’s expenses

Compensation Available
•
•

Medical
Funeral or burial expenses

Dwelling means a person’s primary home. A person may be required to provide verification or proof of residence including, but not limited to,
a lease agreement, utility bill, license registration, document showing the mailing address, pay stub, tax form, or notarized statement.
Dating relationship means a current, continuous, romantic, courtship, or engagement relationship, often characterized by actions of
an intimate or sexual nature or an expectation of affection. “Dating relationship” does not include a casual acquaintanceship or ordinary
fraternization between persons in a business or social context.

CVC CLAIMS PROCESSING AND PAYMENT

What happens when the Crime Victims Compensation Program
receives my application?
h Your application will be reviewed.
h Our office will obtain the police report and other documents necessary to determine your
eligibility.
h You will receive a phone call from our office to conduct an interview.
h If you are eligible, you will receive a letter requesting that you submit proof of your losses
within 45 days of receiving the letter.
h Our office will verify your losses and will make a recommendation that will be reviewed by
Court of Claims.
h A letter will be mailed to you by our office with the award recommendation and all
recommended payments will be issued by the Illinois Comptroller’s Office.

Where to Apply

Applications can be submitted online:

https://forms.illinoisattorneygeneral.gov/Forms/CrimeVictims_CompensationRequest
or

Applications are available to download at:

https://illinoisattorneygeneral.gov/safer-communities/supporting-victims-of-crime/ crime-victimcompensation/

Do I have to use
insurance or other
sources of payment?

Yes. The Illinois Crime Victims Compensation Program is the payer of last
resort. All other sources of payment must be exhausted before an award
may be issued by the Crime Victims Compensation Program.
Payment will not be recommended for expenses or losses that can be
covered by any other available sources , including the following: medical,
health, dental, or vision insurance, Public Aid, Medicare, discounts
available under the Hospital Uninsured Patient Discount Act, Worker’s
Compensation Benefits, life insurance, auto insurance, restitution, and any
other reasonable source.

What types of
expenses cannot be
paid by the Crime
Victims Compensation
Program?

• Any expenses not related to the crime

Do I get the money
for compensation?

Payment will be reimbursed to you for your out-of-pocket expenses
paid or directly reimbursed to the service providers if the bills are
outstanding. Compensation is not available for expenses that have not
been previously paid or billed by a vendor.

What if my claim is
denied?

You can appeal the determination through the court of claims.
Information regarding appeal processes will be included in a
determination letter sent from the Attorney General’s office.

What if I change my
address or phone
number after I
have submitted my
application?

Notify the Attorney General’s office to update your contact information.
If the office is unable to contact you, an award cannot be recommended.

What proof of my
expenses should I
keep?

Keep receipts, bills, and any other proof of payment for all items you are
seeking to receive compensation for.

What if my claim
was closed without
payment because I
could not find the
bills or receipts?

Once you find the documents required to receive compensation, contact
the Attorney General’s office to request that your claim be reopened.

• Pain and suffering
• Stolen, damaged or lost property (except locks, doors and windows)

Rev. 11/24

