Illinois General Assembly -  - Press Option+1 for screen-reader mode, Option+0 to cancel Accessibility Screen-Reader Guide, Feedback, and Issue Reporting | New window Select Language Abkhaz Acehnese Acholi Afar Afrikaans Albanian Alur Amharic Arabic Armenian Assamese Avar Awadhi Aymara Azerbaijani Balinese Baluchi Bambara Baoulé Bashkir Basque Batak Karo Batak Simalungun Batak Toba Belarusian Bemba Bengali Betawi Bhojpuri Bikol Bosnian Breton Bulgarian Buryat Cantonese Catalan Cebuano Chamorro Chechen Chichewa Chinese (Simplified) Chinese (Traditional) Chuukese Chuvash Corsican Crimean Tatar (Cyrillic) Crimean Tatar (Latin) Croatian Czech Danish Dari Dhivehi Dinka Dogri Dombe Dutch Dyula Dzongkha Esperanto Estonian Ewe Faroese Fijian Filipino Finnish Fon French French (Canada) Frisian Friulian Fulani Ga Galician Georgian German Greek Guarani Gujarati Haitian Creole Hakha Chin Hausa Hawaiian Hebrew Hiligaynon Hindi Hmong Hungarian Hunsrik Iban Icelandic Igbo Ilocano Indonesian Inuktut (Latin) Inuktut (Syllabics) Irish Italian Jamaican Patois Japanese Javanese Jingpo Kalaallisut Kannada Kanuri Kapampangan Kazakh Khasi Khmer Kiga Kikongo Kinyarwanda Kituba Kokborok Komi Konkani Korean Krio Kurdish (Kurmanji) Kurdish (Sorani) Kyrgyz Lao Latgalian Latin Latvian Ligurian Limburgish Lingala Lithuanian Lombard Luganda Luo Luxembourgish Macedonian Madurese Maithili Makassar Malagasy Malay Malay (Jawi) Malayalam Maltese Mam Manx Maori Marathi Marshallese Marwadi Mauritian Creole Meadow Mari Meiteilon (Manipuri) Minang Mizo Mongolian Myanmar (Burmese) Nahuatl (Eastern Huasteca) Ndau Ndebele (South) Nepalbhasa (Newari) Nepali NKo Norwegian Nuer Occitan Odia (Oriya) Oromo Ossetian Pangasinan Papiamento Pashto Persian Polish Portuguese (Brazil) Portuguese (Portugal) Punjabi (Gurmukhi) Punjabi (Shahmukhi) Quechua Qʼeqchiʼ Romani Romanian Rundi Russian Sami (North) Samoan Sango Sanskrit Santali (Latin) Santali (Ol Chiki) Scots Gaelic Sepedi Serbian Sesotho Seychellois Creole Shan Shona Sicilian Silesian Sindhi Sinhala Slovak Slovenian Somali Spanish Sundanese Susu Swahili Swati Swedish Tahitian Tajik Tamazight Tamazight (Tifinagh) Tamil Tatar Telugu Tetum Thai Tibetan Tigrinya Tiv Tok Pisin Tongan Tshiluba Tsonga Tswana Tulu Tumbuka Turkish Turkmen Tuvan Twi Udmurt Ukrainian Urdu Uyghur Uzbek Venda Venetian Vietnamese Waray Welsh Wolof Xhosa Yakut Yiddish Yoruba Yucatec Maya Zapotec Zulu Powered by Translate Select Language × The Illinois General Assembly offers the Google Translate™ service for visitor convenience. In no way should it be considered accurate as to the translation of any content herein. Visitors of the Illinois General Assembly website are encouraged to use other translation services available on the internet. The English language version is always the official and authoritative version of this website. NOTE: To return to the original English language version, select the "Show Original" button on the Google Translate™ menu bar at the top of the window. Choose Language English Afrikaans Albanian Arabic Armenian Azerbaijani Basque Bengali Bosnian Catalan Croatian Czech Danish Dutch Esperanto Estonian Filipino Finnish French Galician Georgian German Greek Gujarati Haitian Creole Hausa Hawaiian Hebrew Hindi Hungarian Icelandic Indonesian Interlingua Interlingue Inuktitut Irish Italian Japanese Javanese Kannada Khmer Korean Latin Latvian Lithuanian Luxembourgish Macedonian Malagasy Malayalam Maltese Maori Marathi Myanmar Nepali Norwegian Odia Pashto Punjabi Romanian Russian Samoan Sango Sanskrit Sardinian Sindhi Sinhala Slovak Slovenian Somali Southern Sotho Spanish Sundanese Swahili Swedish Tamil Telugu Thai Tigrinya Tonga Turkish Ukrainian Urdu Vietnamese Welsh Xhosa Yiddish Yoruba Zulu Powered by Translate Close - Home Legislation Illinois Compiled Statutes - FAMILIES
                    (750 ILCS 61/) Address Confidentiality for Victims of Domestic Violence, Sexual Assault, Human Trafficking, or Stalking Act. Back to Act Listing By Act Name Printer Friendly Illinois Compiled Statutes (ILCS) Updating the database of the Illinois Compiled Statutes (ILCS) is an ongoing process. Recent laws may not yet be included in the ILCS database, but they are found on this site as Public Acts soon after they become law. For information concerning the relationship between statutes and Public Acts, refer to the Guide . Because the statute database is maintained primarily for legislative drafting purposes, statutory changes are sometimes included in the statute database before they take effect. If the source note at the end of a Section of the statutes includes a Public Act that has not yet taken effect, the version of the law that is currently in effect may have already been removed from the database and you should refer to that Public Act to see the changes made to the current law. (750 ILCS 61/1) Sec. 1. Short title. This Act may be cited as the Address Confidentiality for Victims of Domestic Violence, Sexual Assault, Human Trafficking, or Stalking Act. (Source: P.A. 101-270, eff. 1-1-21; 102-292, eff. 1-1-22 .) (750 ILCS 61/5) Sec. 5. Legislative findings. The General Assembly finds that persons attempting to escape from actual or
threatened domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, or stalking frequently establish new addresses in order to
prevent their assailants or probable assailants from finding them. The
purpose of this Act is to enable State and local agencies to respond to
requests for public records without disclosing the location of a victim of
domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, or stalking, to enable interagency cooperation with the Attorney
General in providing address confidentiality for victims of domestic
violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, or stalking, and to enable State and local agencies to accept a program
participant's use of an address designated by the Attorney General as a
substitute mailing address. (Source: P.A. 101-270, eff. 1-1-21; 102-292, eff. 1-1-22 .) (750 ILCS 61/10) (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-837 ) Sec. 10. Definitions. In this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires: "Address" means a residential street address, school address, or
work address of an individual, as specified on the individual's application
to be a program participant under this Act. "Program participant" means a person certified as a program
participant under this Act. "Domestic violence" has the same meaning as in the Illinois Domestic Violence
Act of 1986 and
includes a threat of domestic violence against an individual in a
domestic situation, regardless of whether the domestic violence or threat has
been
reported to law enforcement officers. "Human trafficking" means the practices set forth in subsection (b), (c), or (d) of Section 10-9 of the Criminal Code of 2012, regardless of whether the victim has reported the trafficking to law enforcement officers. "Sexual assault" has the same meaning as sexual conduct or sexual penetration as defined in the Civil No Contact Order Act. "Sexual assault" includes a threat of sexual assault, regardless of whether the sexual assault or threat has been reported to law enforcement officers. "Stalking" has the same meaning as in the Stalking No Contact Order Act. "Stalking" includes a threat of stalking, regardless of whether the stalking or threat has been reported to law enforcement officers. (Source: P.A. 101-270, eff. 1-1-21; 102-292, eff. 1-1-22 .) (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-837 ) Sec. 10. Definitions. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires: "Confidential address" means the Illinois residential street address of an individual that is not to be disclosed. "Substitute address" means the address assigned to a program participant by the Address Confidentiality Program. "Program participant" means a person certified as a program participant under this Act. "Household member" means an individual residing at the same Illinois residential street address as a program participant who is the victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, or stalking. "Eligible person" means a person 18 years of age or older who is the victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, or stalking; the parent or guardian of a minor or disabled adult who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, or stalking; or a household member of a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, or stalking. "Domestic violence" has the same meaning as in the Illinois Domestic Violence Act of 1986 and includes a threat of domestic violence against an individual in a domestic situation, regardless of whether the domestic violence or threat has been reported to law enforcement officers. "Human trafficking" means the practices set forth in subsection (b), (c), or (d) of Section 10-9 of the Criminal Code of 2012, regardless of whether the victim has reported the trafficking to law enforcement officers. "Sexual assault" has the same meaning as sexual conduct or sexual penetration as defined in the Civil No Contact Order Act. "Sexual assault" includes a threat of sexual assault, regardless of whether the sexual assault or threat has been reported to law enforcement officers. "Stalking" has the same meaning as in the Stalking No Contact Order Act. "Stalking" includes a threat of stalking, regardless of whether the stalking or threat has been reported to law enforcement officers. (Source: P.A. 104-837, eff. 1-1-27.) (750 ILCS 61/11) Sec. 11. Address confidentiality program; administration. Subject to
appropriations for the purposes of this Act, the Attorney General shall
administer an address confidentiality program for victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, or stalking. (Source: P.A. 101-270, eff. 1-1-21; 102-292, eff. 1-1-22 .) (750 ILCS 61/15) (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-837 ) Sec. 15. Address confidentiality
program; application; certification. (a) An adult person, a parent or guardian acting on behalf of a
minor, or a guardian acting on behalf of a person with a disability, as
defined in Article 11a of the Probate Act of 1975, may apply to the Attorney
General to have an
address designated by the Attorney General serve as the person's address
or the address of the minor or person with a disability. The Attorney General
shall approve an application if it is filed in the manner and on the form
prescribed by him or her and if it contains: (1) a sworn statement by the applicant that the applicant has good reason to believe (i) that the applicant, or the minor or person with a disability on whose behalf the application is made, is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, or stalking; and (ii) that the applicant fears for his or her safety or his or her children's safety, or the safety of the minor or person with a disability on whose behalf the application is made; (2) a designation of the Attorney General as agent for purposes of service of process and receipt of mail; (3) a State mailing address where the applicant can be contacted by the Attorney General, and the phone number or numbers where the applicant can be called by the Attorney General; (3.5) proof of a State residential street address where the applicant resides or a signed statement affirming the applicant's status as homeless in this State; (4) the new address or addresses that the applicant requests not be disclosed for the reason that disclosure will increase the risk of domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, or stalking; and (5) the signature of the applicant and of any individual or representative of any office designated in writing under Section 40 of this Act who assisted in the preparation of the application, and the date on which the applicant signed the application. (b) Applications shall be filed with the office of the Attorney General. (c) Upon filing a properly completed application, the Attorney General shall
certify the applicant as a program participant. Applicants
shall be certified for 4 years following the date of filing unless the
certification is withdrawn or invalidated before that date. The Attorney
General shall by rule establish a renewal procedure. (d) A person who falsely attests in an application that disclosure
of the applicant's address would endanger the applicant's safety or the
safety of the applicant's children or the minor or incapacitated person on
whose behalf the application is made, or who knowingly provides false or
incorrect information upon making an application, is guilty of a Class 3
felony. (Source: P.A. 101-270, eff. 1-1-21; 102-292, eff. 1-1-22 .) (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-837 ) Sec. 15. Address confidentiality program; application; certification. (a) An eligible applicant, as defined by this Section, may apply to the Attorney General to have an address designated by the Attorney General serve as the person's address or the address of the minor or person with a disability. The Attorney General shall approve an application if it is filed in the manner and on the form prescribed by him or her and if it contains: (1) a sworn statement by the applicant that the applicant has good reason to believe (i) that the applicant, or the minor or person with a disability on whose behalf the application is made, is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, or stalking; or (ii) the applicant is a household member of a program participant; (1.3) a sworn statement that the applicant fears for the applicant's safety or the applicant's children's safety, or the safety of the minor or person with a disability on whose behalf the application is made, or the safety of a household member; (1.5) an explanation supporting the statements made under subsections (1) and (1.3); (2) a designation of the Attorney General as agent for purposes of service of process and receipt of mail; (3) an Illinois mailing address where the applicant can be contacted by the Attorney General, and the phone number or numbers where the applicant can be called by the Attorney General; (3.5) proof of an Illinois residential street address where the applicant resides or a signed statement affirming the applicant's status as homeless in Illinois indicating that the applicant will be moving to an Illinois residential street address within 30 days; (4) the new Illinois residential street address "confidential address" that the applicant requests not be disclosed for the reason that disclosure will increase the risk of domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, or stalking; and (5) the signature of the applicant and of any individual or representative of any office designated in writing under Section 40 of this Act who assisted in the preparation of the application, and the date on which the applicant signed the application. (a-1) For applicants applying on behalf of a minor or person with a disability, the Attorney General may request proof of guardianship, as defined in Article 11a of the Probate Act of 1975, or proof of legal custody, as defined in Section 10-20.12b of the School Code, before certifying a minor or person with a disability as a program participant. (b) Applications shall be filed with the office of the Attorney General. (c) Upon filing a properly completed application, the Attorney General shall certify the applicant as a program participant. Applicants shall be certified for 4 years following the date of filing unless the certification is withdrawn or invalidated before that date. A participant whose certification has not been withdrawn or cancelled may reapply to the Address Confidentiality Program to renew the applicant's certification for an additional 4 years. (d) A person who falsely attests in an application that disclosure of the applicant's confidential address would endanger the applicant's safety or the safety of the applicant's children or the minor or disabled person on whose behalf the application is made, or the safety of a household member, or who knowingly provides false or incorrect information upon making an application, is guilty of a Class 3 felony. (Source: P.A. 104-837, eff. 1-1-27.) (750 ILCS 61/20) (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-837 ) Sec. 20. Certification cancellation. (a) If the program participant obtains a name change, he or she
loses certification as a program participant. (b) The Attorney General may cancel a program participant's
certification if there is a change in the residential address from the one
listed on the application, unless the program participant provides the
Attorney General within 7 days notice before the change of address. (c) The Attorney General may cancel certification of a program
participant if mail forwarded by the Attorney General to the program
participant's
address is returned as nondeliverable. (d) The Attorney General shall cancel certification of a program
participant who applies using false information. (Source: P.A. 91-494, eff. 1-1-00.) (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-837 ) Sec. 20. Certification cancellation. (a) If the program participant obtains a legal change of identity to a new, unassociated name, the applicant loses certification as a program participant. (b) The Attorney General may cancel a program participant's certification if: (1) a program participant fails to provide the Attorney General with 7 days' notice before a change in the confidential residential street address, phone number, or legal name, from the one listed on the application; (2) mail forwarded by the Attorney General to the program participant's confidential address is returned as nondeliverable; (3) a program participant fails to file a new application within 30 days after becoming 18 years of age; (4) a program participant is unable or unwilling to maintain the confidentiality of the program participant's confidential address; (5) a program participant fails to respond to the program's request for verification of the participant's residential address within 7 days; or (6) a program participant is no longer an eligible person as defined in Section 10. (c) A person whose certification is cancelled for any reason listed in subsections (a) or (b) may reapply to the program at any time after the person's certification has been cancelled. (d) The Attorney General shall cancel certification of a program participant who applies using false information. (e) If a program participant loses certification or the certification is cancelled, mail addressed to the former program participant must be returned to the sender. (Source: P.A. 104-837, eff. 1-1-27.) (750 ILCS 61/25) (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-837 ) Sec. 25. Agency use of designated address. (a) A program participant may request that State and local agencies
use the address designated by the Attorney General as his or her address.
When creating a new public record, State and local agencies shall accept
the address designated by the Attorney General as a program participant's
substitute address, unless the Attorney General has determined that: (1) the agency has a bona fide statutory or administrative requirement for the use of the address that would otherwise be confidential under this Act; and (2) this address will be used only for those statutory and administrative purposes. (b) A program participant may use the address designated by the
Attorney General as his or her work address. (c) The office of the Attorney General shall forward all first
class mail to the appropriate program participants. (Source: P.A. 91-494, eff. 1-1-00.) (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-837 ) Sec. 25. Agency use of designated address. (a) A program participant may request that State and local agencies use the substitute address designated by the Attorney General as the program participant's address. When creating a new public record, State and local agencies shall accept the address designated by the Attorney General as a program participant's substitute address, unless the Attorney General has determined that: (1) the agency has a bona fide statutory or administrative requirement for the use of the address that would otherwise be confidential under this Act; and (2) this address will be used only for those statutory and administrative purposes. (b) A program participant may use the substitute address as the program participant's work address. (c) The office of the Attorney General shall forward only first class mail to the appropriate program participants within 7 business days. Mail for cancelled participants or mail that cannot be forwarded within 7 business days shall be returned to sender. Program participants who withdraw from the program may provide a new mailing address and request to have mail forwarded for 30 days following their withdrawal. (Source: P.A. 104-837, eff. 1-1-27.) (750 ILCS 61/30) (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-837 ) Sec. 30. Voting by program participant; use of designated
address by election authority. (a) A program participant who is otherwise qualified to vote may
register to vote by submitting an Illinois Address Confidentiality Program Voter Registration Application created by the State Board of Elections to the appropriate election authority.
The State Board of Elections shall adopt rules to ensure the integrity of the voting
process and the confidentiality of the program participant.
Upon request, the election authority shall transmit the vote by mail ballot to
the program participant at the address designated by the participant in his
or her application. Neither the name nor the address of
a program participant shall be included in any list of registered voters
available to the public. (b) The election authority may not make the participant's address
contained in voter registration records available for public inspection or
copying except under the following circumstances: (1) if requested by a law enforcement agency, to the law enforcement agency; and (2) if directed by a court order, to a person identified in the order. (Source: P.A. 102-292, eff. 1-1-22 .) (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-837 ) Sec. 30. Voting by program participant; use of designated address by election authority. (a) A program participant who is otherwise qualified to vote may register to vote by submitting an Illinois Address Confidentiality Program Voter Registration Application created by the State Board of Elections to the appropriate election authority. The State Board of Elections shall adopt rules to ensure the integrity of the voting process and the confidentiality of the program participant. Upon request, the election authority shall transmit the vote by mail ballot to the program participant at the address designated by the participant in the applicant's application. Neither the name nor the address of a program participant shall be included in any list of registered voters available to the public. (b) The election authority may not make the participant's address contained in voter registration records available for public inspection or copying except under the following circumstances: (1) if requested by a law enforcement agency, to the law enforcement agency; and (2) if directed by a court order, to a person identified in the order. (Source: P.A. 104-837, eff. 1-1-27.) (750 ILCS 61/35) (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-837 ) Sec. 35. Disclosure of address prohibited; exceptions. The Attorney General may not make a program participant's address, other
than the address designated by the Attorney General, available for
inspection or copying, except under the following circumstances: (a) if requested by a law enforcement agency, to the law enforcement agency; (b) if directed by a court order, to a person identified in the order; and (c) (blank). A program participant's address and phone number on file with the Attorney General are not subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act. (Source: P.A. 102-292, eff. 1-1-22 .) (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-837 ) Sec. 35. Disclosure of address prohibited; exceptions. The Attorney General may not make a program participant's confidential address available for inspection or copying, except under the following circumstances: (a) if requested by a law enforcement agency, to the law enforcement agency; (b) if directed by a court order, to a person identified in the order; and (c) (blank). A program participant's address and phone number on file with the Attorney General are not subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act. (Source: P.A. 104-837, eff. 1-1-27.) (750 ILCS 61/40) (Text of Section before amendment by P.A. 104-837 ) Sec. 40. Assistance for program applicants. The Attorney General shall designate State and local agencies and
nonprofit agencies that provide counseling and shelter services to victims
of domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, or stalking to assist persons applying to be program participants.
Any assistance and counseling rendered by the office of the Attorney General or
its designees to applicants shall in no way be construed as legal
advice. (Source: P.A. 101-270, eff. 1-1-21; 102-292, eff. 1-1-22 .) (Text of Section after amendment by P.A. 104-837 ) Sec. 40. Assistance for program applicants. The Attorney General may designate State and local agencies and nonprofit agencies that provide counseling and shelter services to victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, or stalking to assist persons applying to be program participants. Any assistance and counseling rendered by the office of the Attorney General or its designees to applicants shall in no way be construed as legal advice. (Source: P.A. 104-837, eff. 1-1-27.) (750 ILCS 61/45) Sec. 45. Rules. The Attorney General may adopt rules to facilitate the
administration of
this Act by State and local agencies. (Source: P.A. 91-494, eff. 1-1-00.) (750 ILCS 61/100) Sec. 100. (Amendatory provisions; text omitted). (Source: P.A. 91-494, eff. 1-1-00; text omitted.) Original text Rate this translation Your feedback will be used to help improve Google Translate