Alabama Code § 15-23-5 (2025) - Alabama Crime Victims Compensation Commission - Powers and Duties. :: 2025 Code of Alabama :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Code of Alabama (here) 2024 Code of Alabama 2023 Code of Alabama View All Versions 2025 Code of Alabama Title 15 - Criminal Procedure. Chapter 23 - Alabama Crime Victims. Article 1 - Crime Victims’ Compensation. Section 15-23-5 - Alabama Crime Victims Compensation Commission - Powers and Duties. Universal Citation: AL Code § 15-23-5 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next Section 15-23-5 Alabama Crime Victims Compensation Commission - Powers and Duties. The commission shall have all the powers and privileges of a corporation and all of its business shall be transacted in the name of the commission. In addition to any other powers and duties specified elsewhere in this article, the commission may do any of the following: (1) Regulate its own procedures except as otherwise provided in this chapter. (2) Define any term not defined in this article. (3) Prescribe forms necessary to carry out the purposes of this article. (4) Obtain access to investigative reports made by law enforcement officers or law enforcement agencies which may be necessary to assist the commission in making a determination of eligibility for compensation under this article; provided, however, the reports and the information contained herein, when received by the commission, shall be confidential and under no circumstances may the commission disclose the same except to a grand jury. (5) Take judicial notice of general, technical, and scientific facts within their specialized knowledge. (6) Publicize the availability of compensation and information regarding the filing of claims. (7) Collect all monies provided by this article to be collected by the commission. (8) Provide for and maintain all necessary administrative facilities and personnel. (9) Provide for payment of all administrative salaries, fees, and expenses. (10) Cause its monies to be invested and its investments sold or exchanged and the proceeds and income collected. (11) Determine who is a victim or dependent. (12) Consider all applications for compensation or other benefits provided for in this article. (13) a. Authorize the executive director to determine eligibility for all applications for compensation and authorize payment for approved and reduced claims. b. The commission shall review all contested cases pursuant to the Alabama Administrative Procedure Act. The commission may affirm, reverse, or modify the executive director’s claims decisions. (14) Adopt rules to expedite the administration of the affairs of the commission not inconsistent with this article. (15) Provide descriptive literature and promotional items respecting the commission and its duties. (16) Pay all compensation or other benefits that may be determined to be due under this article and under the rules of the commission. (17) Employ agents, attorneys, actuaries, and other specialized personnel as needed by the commission. (18) Receive by gift, grant, devise, or bequest any monies or properties of any nature or description. (19) Accept and administer loans, grants, and donations from the federal government, its agencies, and all other sources, public and private, for carrying out any of its functions. (20) Develop a comprehensive analysis of the problems regarding victims of crime within the criminal justice system or systems of this state and formulate model programs, plans, or methods for lessening the physical, mental, or financial burdens placed on innocent crime victims by the operation of the criminal justice system both on the state and local level. (21) Identify laws, rules, or regulations proposed or adopted by any agency or institution of this state or any political subdivision thereof which have or will have a significant adverse or beneficial impact upon crime victims and to advocate the adoption, repeal, or modification thereof in the interest of innocent victims of crime. (22) Collect, develop, and maintain statistical information, records, and reports to carry out its powers, duties, or functions pursuant to this article. All agencies and institutions of this state or the political subdivisions thereof, upon a written request by the commission, shall furnish the commission statistical information or data as requested by the commission to fulfill its duties and responsibilities. (23) Award loans or grants of money, equipment, or personnel to public or private nonprofit corporations or associations, agencies of the State of Alabama or political subdivisions thereof, or to state, county, or municipal law enforcement, prosecutorial, or judicial agencies upon terms and conditions as the commission may deem proper for the purpose of developing, enhancing, or establishing bona fide model crime victims service programs which emphasize the collection of restitution from criminals as an integral part of the criminal justice process. The loans or grants shall only be awarded when sufficient funds are available in excess of reasonably anticipated or projected claims for compensation. (24) Provide for the cost of forensic medical examinations for the purpose of gathering evidence and treatment for preventing sexually transmitted infections in sexual abuse crimes and offenses. (25) Carry out any powers expressly granted elsewhere in this article to the commission. (26) All other powers necessary for the proper administration of this article. (Acts 1984, No. 84-658, p. 1308, §5; Acts 1986, No. 86-510, p. 993, §3; Acts 1990, No. 90-470, p. 677, §2; Acts 1995, No. 95-494, p. 994, §1; Act 2014-335, p. 1232, §1; Act 2022-196, §1.) Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Alabama may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Sam Bernstein Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 883-9584 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Traffic Tickets, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Megan  Smith PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI Website Email Call Email Profile Michael J. Vincent PREMIUM (734) 487-4970 Ypsilanti, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Peter Samouris PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Appeals & Appellate, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Timothy Doman PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Appeals & Appellate Website Email Call Email Profile Daniel T. Geherin PREMIUM (734) 263-2780 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Domestic Violence, Personal Injury, Civil Rights Website Email Call Email Profile Scott Grabel Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Appeals & Appellate, Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new Supreme Court of Alabama - Criminal Law opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions