Alabama Code § 15-23-14 (2025) - Award of Compensation Subrogates Commission to Rights of Claimant as to Collateral Source; Funds Recovered from Collateral Source Held in Trust for Commission; Disposition of Trust Funds; Notice of Action to Recover Damages; Restitution Hearings. :: 2025 Code of Alabama :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Code of Alabama (here) 2024 Code of Alabama 2023 Code of Alabama View All Versions 2025 Code of Alabama Title 15 - Criminal Procedure. Chapter 23 - Alabama Crime Victims. Article 1 - Crime Victims’ Compensation. Section 15-23-14 - Award of Compensation Subrogates Commission to Rights of Claimant as to Collateral Source; Funds Recovered from Collateral Source Held in Trust for Commission; Disposition of Trust Funds; Notice of Action to Recover Damages; Restitution Hearings. Universal Citation: AL Code § 15-23-14 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next Section 15-23-14 Award of Compensation Subrogates Commission to Rights of Claimant as to Collateral Source; Funds Recovered from Collateral Source Held in Trust for Commission; Disposition of Trust Funds; Notice of Action to Recover Damages; Restitution Hearings. (a) If compensation is awarded, the commission shall be subrogated to all the rights of a claimant to receive or recover from a collateral source to the extent that compensation was awarded. (b) In the event the claimant recovers compensation, other than under the provisions of this article, for injuries or death resulting from criminally injurious conduct, the claimant shall retain, as trustee for the commission, so much of the recovered funds as necessary to reimburse the Alabama Crime Victims Compensation Fund to the extent that compensation was awarded to the claimant from that fund. The funds retained in trust shall be promptly paid over to the commission and deposited in the Alabama Crime Victims Compensation Fund. Whenever the commission shall deem it necessary to protect, maintain or enforce the commission’s right to subrogation or to exercise any of its powers or to carry out any of its duties or responsibilities the commission may initiate legal proceedings or intervene in legal proceedings. (c) If a claimant initiates any legal proceeding to recover restitution or damages related to the criminally injurious conduct upon which compensation is claimed or awarded, the claimant shall give the commission written notice within 15 days of the filing of the action. The commission may intervene in the proceeding as a complainant to recover the compensation awarded. If a claimant fails to give such written notice to the commission within the stated time period, or prior to any attempt by claimant to reach a negotiated settlement of claims for recovery of damages related to the criminally injurious conduct, the commission’s right of subrogation to receive or recover funds from claimant, to the extent that compensation was awarded by the commission, shall not be reduced in any amount or percentage by the costs incurred by claimant attributable to such legal proceedings or settlement; including, but not limited to, attorney’s fee, expert witness fees, investigative costs or cost of court. If such notice is given, attorney fees may be awarded in an amount not to exceed 15 percent of the amount subrogated to the commission. (d) Whenever compensation is awarded to a claimant who is entitled to restitution from a criminal defendant, the commission may initiate restitution hearings in such criminal proceedings or intervene in the same. The commission shall be entitled to receive restitution in such proceedings to the extent that compensation was awarded. The commission shall be subrogated to all the rights and remedies of such claimant for the collection of restitution to the extent compensation was awarded; provided however, the commission shall be exempt from the payment of any fees or other charges for the recording of restitution orders in the offices of the judges of probate. (Acts 1984, No. 84-658, p. 1308, §14; Acts 1986, No. 86-510, p. 993, §4; Acts 1990, No. 90-470, p. 677, §4.) Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Alabama may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Sam Bernstein Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 883-9584 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Traffic Tickets, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Megan  Smith PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI Website Email Call Email Profile Scott Grabel Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Appeals & Appellate, Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime Website Email Call Email Profile Daniel T. Geherin PREMIUM (734) 263-2780 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Domestic Violence, Personal Injury, Civil Rights Website Email Call Email Profile Michael J. Vincent PREMIUM (734) 487-4970 Ypsilanti, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Joseph Brugnoli PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, White Collar Crime, Juvenile Law Website Email Call Email Profile Jonathan Jones Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (248) 310-3399 Romulus, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, Traffic Tickets Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new Supreme Court of Alabama - Criminal Law opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions