Alabama Code § 15-23-15 (2025) - Amount and Method of Compensation; Future Economic Loss Generally; Exemption from State and Local Taxes, Etc. :: 2025 Code of Alabama :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Code of Alabama (here) 2024 Code of Alabama 2023 Code of Alabama View All Versions 2025 Code of Alabama Title 15 - Criminal Procedure. Chapter 23 - Alabama Crime Victims. Article 1 - Crime Victims’ Compensation. Section 15-23-15 - Amount and Method of Compensation; Future Economic Loss Generally; Exemption from State and Local Taxes, Etc. Universal Citation: AL Code § 15-23-15 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next Section 15-23-15 Amount and Method of Compensation; Future Economic Loss Generally; Exemption from State and Local Taxes, Etc. (a) Compensation for work loss, replacement services loss, dependent’s economic loss, and dependent’s replacement services loss may not exceed six hundred dollars ($600) per week. (b) Compensation payable to a victim and to all other claimants sustaining economic loss because of injury to or death of that victim may not exceed twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) in the aggregate. (c) The commission may provide for the payment to a claimant in a lump sum or in installments. At the request of the claimant, the commission may convert future economic loss, other than allowable expense, to a lump sum, but only upon a finding by the commission that the award in a lump sum will promote the interests of the claimant. (d) An award payable in installments for future economic loss may be made only for a period as to which the commission can reasonably determine future economic loss. An award payable in installments for future economic loss may be modified by the commission upon its findings that a material and substantial change of circumstances has occurred. (e) An award shall not be subject to state or municipal taxation or to execution, attachment, or garnishment, except as the same may pertain to an obligation for the support of dependent children or as the same may pertain to a creditor which has provided products, services, or accommodations, the costs of which are included in the award. (f) An assignment by the claimant to any future award under the provisions of this article is unenforceable, except any of the following assignments: (1) An assignment of any award for work loss to assure payment of court-ordered child support. (2) An assignment of any award for an allowable expense to the extent that the benefits are for the cost of products, services, or accommodations necessitated by the injury or death on which the claim is based and are provided or to be provided by the assignee. (Acts 1984, No. 84-658, p. 1308, §15; Acts 1990, No. 90-470, p. 677, §5; Act 98-492, p. 945, §1; Act 2014-335, p. 1232, §1.) Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Alabama may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Sam Bernstein Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 883-9584 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Traffic Tickets, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Timothy Doman PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Appeals & Appellate Website Email Call Email Profile Daniel T. Geherin PREMIUM (734) 263-2780 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Domestic Violence, Personal Injury, Civil Rights Website Email Call Email Profile Joseph Brugnoli PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, White Collar Crime, Juvenile Law Website Email Call Email Profile Megan  Smith PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI Website Email Call Email Profile Scott Grabel Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Appeals & Appellate, Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new Supreme Court of Alabama - Criminal Law opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions