Alabama Code § 15-23-4 (2025) - Alabama Crime Victims Compensation Commission - Created; Composition; Meetings; Rules and Regulations; Bond; Compensation. :: 2025 Code of Alabama :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Code of Alabama (here) 2024 Code of Alabama 2023 Code of Alabama View All Versions 2025 Code of Alabama Title 15 - Criminal Procedure. Chapter 23 - Alabama Crime Victims. Article 1 - Crime Victims’ Compensation. Section 15-23-4 - Alabama Crime Victims Compensation Commission - Created; Composition; Meetings; Rules and Regulations; Bond; Compensation. Universal Citation: AL Code § 15-23-4 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next Section 15-23-4 Alabama Crime Victims Compensation Commission - Created; Composition; Meetings; Rules and Regulations; Bond; Compensation. (a) The Alabama Crime Victims Compensation Commission is created and shall be composed of three residents of this state, who shall be appointed by the Governor with the advice and consent of the Senate, for terms of four years each or until their successors are appointed and qualified. Provided however, initial appointments shall be as follows: One member shall be appointed for two years, one member shall be appointed for three years, and one member shall be appointed for four years. All appointments to fill vacancies shall be for the duration of the unexpired term and subsequent appointments shall be for four-year terms. The membership of the board shall be inclusive and the Governor shall coordinate his or her appointments so that the diversity of gender, race, and geographical areas is reflective of the makeup of this state. (b) At least one member shall be a law enforcement officer with a minimum of 10 years’ experience in or with a law enforcement agency which has among its primary duties and responsibilities the investigation of violent crimes and the apprehension or arrest of the perpetrators. (c) At least one member shall be a victim of a crime of violence who suffered serious personal injury as a result of the crime, a member of a victim’s immediate family or a member of a deceased victim’s immediate family if the deceased victim died as a result of a crime of violence, or an officer of a nonprofit charitable crime victims organization established pursuant to the laws of Alabama. (d) Each year the commission shall elect a chair from its membership. (e) The commission may appoint an executive director who shall serve at the pleasure of the commission and shall be paid a salary in an amount to be determined by the commission. (f) The commission shall have its principal place of business in the county where the State Capitol is located. (g) The commission shall hold, at its principal place of business, quarterly public meetings at times and places as its members may elect. (h) Any two members of the commission shall constitute a quorum for purposes of transacting the business of the commission and two votes in favor shall be necessary for a decision by the commission at any meeting of the commission. (i) The commission shall establish rules for the administration of its duties and responsibilities pursuant to this chapter. (j) The chair of the commission shall keep a true record of all of the proceedings of the meetings of the commission. At the call of any member, the vote on any pending question shall be taken by ayes and nays, and the same shall be entered in the record. The record of the proceedings of the commission shall be open to any member of the commission and to the public. A copy of the record, certified by the chair, shall be competent evidence in all courts. (k) The commission may not disclose the names and addresses of victims or claimants who have applied for compensation pursuant to this article or the facts or circumstances of the criminally injurious conduct perpetrated against them. (l) All members and employees of the commission handling money or exercising authority over any property, before entering the discharge of their duties, shall provide a bond with a surety company authorized to do business in this state, as surety, payable to the commission in an amount or amounts sufficient to protect the commission against any loss with respect to the funds, money, or property handled, conditioned for the faithful discharge of their duties and responsibilities and further conditioned upon their faithfully accounting for all monies, funds, or properties coming into their possession in the capacity of their employment. (m) The Attorney General or the district attorney of the county where the State Capitol is located, upon written request by the commission, shall represent the commission in all litigation where the commission is a party or in which the commission has an interest. The Attorney General shall serve as a legal advisor to the commission. (n) All commission members shall be paid two hundred fifty dollars ($250) per day and mileage for attendance of commission meetings. Mileage and per diem shall be the same as allowed state employees when a commission member is traveling on official business of the commission and shall be paid from the Alabama Crime Victims Compensation Fund. (Acts 1984, No. 84-658, p. 1308, §4; Acts 1986, No. 86-510, p. 993, §2; Act 98-492, p. 945, §1; Act 2009-749, p. 2268, §1; Act 2022-196, §1.) Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Alabama may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Sam Bernstein Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 883-9584 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Traffic Tickets, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Timothy Doman PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Appeals & Appellate Website Email Call Email Profile Michael J. Vincent PREMIUM (734) 487-4970 Ypsilanti, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Sara MacGregor PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Appeals & Appellate, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile William McCririe PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Domestic Violence, Juvenile Law Website Email Call Email Profile Joseph Brugnoli PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, White Collar Crime, Juvenile Law Website Email Call Email Profile Jonathan Jones Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (248) 310-3399 Romulus, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, Traffic Tickets Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions