WHAT EXPENSES ARE
COVERED BY CJI?
For victims of sexual assault, ICJI administers
payment for certain costs associated with a
forensic medical exam. These costs include (not
limited to): a forensic medical exam, mental
health counseling, certain diagnostic testing,
initial pregnancy and follow-up pregnancy testing,
certain laboratory testing for STDs, alcohol, drugs,
suturing and care of wounds and other limited
outpatient services. The approved costs will
be paid by ICJI to the provider, pending certain
conditions are met.
Additionally, ICJI may also provide payment for:
one follow-up pregnancy test, STD testing up
to (30) days following the initial treatment, one
syphilis test up to (90) days following the initial
visit and mental health treatment up to $3,000.
Services must be provided by a licensed mental
health provider.

HOW DO I TRACK THE STATUS
OF MY SEXUAL ASSAULT KIT?
In order to track the status of your sexual assault
kit, please follow these instructions:

1.
2.

Call the Indiana Criminal Justice
Institute Victim Compensation office at:
1-800-353-1484.
Provide your sexual assault kit serial
number and assigned pin.

Sexual Assault Kit
PIN

CONTACT US
317.232.1233
www.cji.in.gov/2333.htm
402 W. Washington St., Room W469 I Indianapolis, IN 46204

RIGHTS OF VICTIMS
OF SEXUAL ASSAULT
Helping victims of sexual assault better
understand their rights.

KNOW YOUR RIGHTS
RIGHTS OF VICTIMS OF
SEXUAL ASSAULT
The following rights of victims of sexual assault
attach whenever a victim is subject to a forensic
medical examination or an interview by a law
enforcement officer in relation to injuries,
trauma, or an investigation resulting from an
alleged sexual assault.
You retain these rights regardless of whether
you agree to participate in any civil or criminal
proceeding related to the assault, and regardless
of whether you consent to a forensic medical
examination to collect forensic evidence related
to the alleged sexual assault.
You have the right to be informed of your
rights as a victim under Indiana law before
the commencement of any forensic medical
examination or an interview by a law
enforcement officer. Those rights include:

You have the right to speak with a victim
advocate or victim service provider during any
hospital visit for the purpose of receiving a
sexual assault examination. If a victim advocate
or victim service provider is not available, you
have the right to speak with victim’s assistance
or a social worker. You retain these rights even if
you have waived one or more of these rights in a
previous examination or interview.
You have the right to be treated with fairness,
dignity and respect and free from intimidation,
harassment and abuse throughout the criminal
justice process.
Your private communications with a victim
advocate, victim service provider, victim’s
assistance, or a social worker are not admissible
into evidence for any purpose except with your
consent.

You have the right to speak with a victim
advocate or victim service provider during the
course of the investigation. If a victim advocate
or victim service provider is not available, you
have the right to speak with victim’s assistance
or a social worker. You retain these rights even if
you have waived one or more of these rights in a
previous examination or interview.
You have the right to be provided with a
forensic medical exam and additional forensic
services without charge. You can ask the
person administering your exam whether
they have been trained to do so. You have the
right to decline any part of the sexual assault
examination. You have the right to a shower at
the medical facility after the examination.

