Indiana Code § 5-2-6.1-21.1. Compensable Losses; Health Care Provider Compensation :: 2025 Indiana Code :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Indiana Code (here) 2024 Indiana Code 2023 Indiana Code View All Versions 2025 Indiana Code Title 5. State and Local Administration Article 2. Law Enforcement Chapter 6.1. Compensation for Victims of Violent Crimes 5-2-6.1-21.1. Compensable Losses; Health Care Provider Compensation Universal Citation: IN Code § 5-2-6.1-21.1 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next Sec. 21.1. (a) This section applies to claims filed with the division after June 30, 2009. (b) This section does not apply to reimbursement for forensic and evidence gathering services provided under section 39 of this chapter. (c) An award may not be made unless the claimant has incurred an out-of-pocket expense that exceeds one hundred dollars ($100) or has incurred loss of income that exceeds one hundred dollars ($100). (d) Subject to subsections (b) and (c), the division may order the payment of compensation under this chapter for any of the following reasonable, documented expenses incurred within one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of the violent crime: (1) Necessary: (A) medical, chiropractic, hospital, dental, optometric, and ambulance services; (B) prescription drugs; and (C) prosthetic devices; that do not exceed the claimant's out-of-pocket expense. (2) Loss of income: (A) the victim would have earned had the victim not died or been injured, if the victim was employed at the time of the violent crime; (B) the parent, guardian, or custodian of a victim who is less than eighteen (18) years of age incurred by taking time off from work to care for the victim; or (C) the spouse of a victim incurred by taking time off from work to care for the victim. A claimant seeking reimbursement under this subdivision must provide the division with proof of employment and current wages. (3) Emergency shelter care expenses, not to exceed the expenses for thirty (30) days, that are incurred for the claimant or a dependent of the claimant to avoid contact with a person who committed the violent crime. (4) Expense incurred for child care, not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000), to replace child care the victim would have supplied had the victim not died or been injured. (5) Loss of financial support the victim would have supplied to legal dependents had the victim not died or been injured. (6) Expenses incurred for funeral, burial, or cremation of the victim that do not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000). The division shall disburse compensation under this subdivision in accordance with guidelines adopted by the division. (7) Outpatient mental health counseling, not to exceed three thousand dollars ($3,000), concerning mental health issues related to the violent crime. (8) Other actual expenses related to bodily injury to or the death of the victim that the division determines are reasonable. (9) Replacement of windows or door locks. (10) Cleanup of the scene of a violent crime. (e) The division shall obtain written verification of all losses and expenses requested under this section before making an award. (f) If a health care provider accepts payment from the division under this chapter, the health care provider may not require the victim to pay a copayment or an additional fee for the provision of services. (g) A health care provider who seeks compensation from the division under this chapter may not simultaneously seek funding for services provided to a victim from any other source. (h) The director may extend the one hundred eighty (180) day compensation period established by subsection (d) for a period not to exceed two (2) years after the date of the violent crime if: (1) the victim or the victim's representative requests the extension; and (2) medical records and other documentation provided by the attending medical providers indicate that an extension is appropriate. (i) The director may extend the one hundred eighty (180) day compensation period established by subsection (d) for outpatient mental health counseling, established by subsection (d)(7) where justice requires, but for a period not to exceed two (2) years. As added by P.L.129-2009, SEC.6. Amended by P.L.161-2013, SEC.2; P.L.113-2014, SEC.7; P.L.98-2022, SEC.7; P.L.9-2024, SEC.119; P.L.20-2024, SEC.15. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Indiana may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Toggle button Get free summaries of new Supreme Court of Indiana opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions