Indiana Code § 5-2-6.1-13. Participants in Criminal Acts and Prisoners Not Eligible for Benefits; Exceptions; Award of Compensation to Dependents of Violent Criminals :: 2025 Indiana Code :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Indiana Code (here) 2024 Indiana Code 2023 Indiana Code View All Versions 2025 Indiana Code Title 5. State and Local Administration Article 2. Law Enforcement Chapter 6.1. Compensation for Victims of Violent Crimes 5-2-6.1-13. Participants in Criminal Acts and Prisoners Not Eligible for Benefits; Exceptions; Award of Compensation to Dependents of Violent Criminals Universal Citation: IN Code § 5-2-6.1-13 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next Sec. 13. (a) Subject to subsection (b) and except as provided in subsection (c), benefits may not be awarded: (1) if the victim sustained the injury as a result of participating or assisting in, or attempting to commit or committing a criminal act; (2) if the injury occurred while the victim was a resident in a county, city, or federal jail or prison or in an institution operated by the department of correction; (3) if the victim profited or would have profited from the criminal act; (4) if, at the time the injury occurred, the victim was intoxicated and contributed to the commission of an unrelated felony; or (5) to a claimant who contributed to the injury or death of the victim. (b) If the victim is a dependent child or dependent parent of the person who commits a violent crime, compensation may be awarded where justice requires. (c) Benefits may be awarded to a person described in subsection (a)(4) who is the victim of a sex crime under IC 35-42-4 , a crime involving domestic or family violence (as defined in IC 35-31.5-2-76 ), a crime of domestic violence (as defined in IC 35-31.5-2-78 ), or incest (as defined in IC 35-46-1-3 ). As added by P.L.47-1993, SEC.2. Amended by P.L.121-2006, SEC.5; P.L.114-2012, SEC.11; P.L.98-2022, SEC.3; P.L.20-2024, SEC.10. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Indiana may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Toggle button Get free summaries of new Supreme Court of Indiana opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions