Indiana Code § 5-2-6.1-8. Violent Crime :: 2025 Indiana Code :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Indiana Code (here) 2024 Indiana Code 2023 Indiana Code View All Versions 2025 Indiana Code Title 5. State and Local Administration Article 2. Law Enforcement Chapter 6.1. Compensation for Victims of Violent Crimes 5-2-6.1-8. Violent Crime Universal Citation: IN Code § 5-2-6.1-8 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next Sec. 8. As used in this chapter, "violent crime" means the following: (1) A crime under the Indiana Code that is a felony of any kind or a Class A misdemeanor that results in bodily injury or death to the victim but does not include any of the following: (A) A crime under IC 9-30-5 resulting from the operation of a vehicle other than a motor vehicle. (B) Involuntary manslaughter resulting from the operation of a motor vehicle by a person who was not intoxicated ( IC 35-42-1-4 ). (C) Reckless homicide resulting from the operation of a motor vehicle by a person who was not intoxicated ( IC 35-42-1-5 ). (D) Criminal recklessness involving the use of a motor vehicle, unless the offense was intentional or the person using the motor vehicle was intoxicated ( IC 35-42-2-2 ). (E) A crime involving the operation of a motor vehicle if the driver of the motor vehicle was not charged with an offense under IC 9-30-5 . (2) A crime in another jurisdiction in which the elements of the crime are substantially similar to the elements of a crime that, if the crime results in death or bodily injury to the victim, would be a felony or a Class A misdemeanor if committed in Indiana. However, the term does not include any of the following: (A) A crime in another jurisdiction resulting from operating a vehicle, other than a motor vehicle, while intoxicated. (B) A crime in another jurisdiction with elements substantially similar to involuntary manslaughter resulting from the operation of a motor vehicle if the crime was committed by a person who was not intoxicated. (C) A crime in another jurisdiction with elements substantially similar to reckless homicide resulting from the operation of a motor vehicle if the crime was committed by a person who was not intoxicated. (D) A crime in another jurisdiction with elements substantially similar to criminal recklessness involving the use of a motor vehicle unless the offense was intentional or the person using the motor vehicle was intoxicated. (E) A crime involving the operation of a motor vehicle if the driver of the motor vehicle was not charged with an offense under IC 9-30-5 . (3) A terrorist act. As added by P.L.47-1993, SEC.2. Amended by P.L.36-1997, SEC.3; P.L.129-2009, SEC.2; P.L.48-2012, SEC.4; P.L.238-2015, SEC.1; P.L.65-2016, SEC.1; P.L.20-2024, SEC.7. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Indiana may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Toggle button Get free summaries of new Supreme Court of Indiana opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions