Indiana Code § 5-2-6.1-39. Payment of Forensic Medical Exams and Additional Forensic Services :: 2025 Indiana Code :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Indiana Code (here) 2024 Indiana Code 2023 Indiana Code View All Versions 2025 Indiana Code Title 5. State and Local Administration Article 2. Law Enforcement Chapter 6.1. Compensation for Victims of Violent Crimes 5-2-6.1-39. Payment of Forensic Medical Exams and Additional Forensic Services Universal Citation: IN Code § 5-2-6.1-39 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next Sec. 39. (a) When a hospital acting under IC 16-21-8 provides a forensic medical exam to an alleged sex crime victim, the hospital shall furnish the forensic medical exam described in IC 16-21-8-6 without charge. The division shall reimburse a hospital for its costs in providing these services and shall adopt rules and procedures to provide for reasonable reimbursement. A hospital may not charge the victim for services required under this chapter, despite delays in reimbursement from the division. (b) When a hospital acting under IC 16-21-8 provides a forensic medical exam to an alleged sex crime victim, the hospital may also furnish additional forensic services to the alleged sex crime victim. However, the additional forensic services, if furnished, shall be furnished without charge. The division shall reimburse a hospital for its costs in providing these services and may adopt rules and procedures to provide for reasonable reimbursement. A hospital may not charge the victim for services required under this chapter even if there is a delay in receiving reimbursement from the division. (c) Costs incurred by a hospital or other emergency medical facility for the examination of the victim of a sex crime (under IC 35-42-4 ) not covered under IC 16-21-8 or incest (under IC 35-46-1-3 ), if the examination is performed for the purposes of gathering evidence for possible prosecution, may not be charged to the victim of the crime. (d) When a licensed medical service provider not covered by subsection (a) or (b) elects to provide a forensic medical exam to an alleged victim of one (1) or more of the sex crimes listed in IC 16-21-8-1 (b), the medical service provider shall furnish the exam without charge. The division shall reimburse a medical service provider for costs in providing forensic medical exams. A medical service provider may not charge the victim for a forensic medical exam required under this chapter even if there is a delay in receiving reimbursement from the division. (e) When a licensed medical service provider not covered by subsection (a) or (b) elects to provide additional forensic services to an alleged sex crime victim, the medical service provider shall furnish the services without charge. The division shall reimburse a medical service provider for costs in providing the additional forensic services. A medical service provider may not charge the victim for services required under this chapter even if there is a delay in receiving reimbursement from the division. (f) The division is not required to reimburse a medical service provider for costs in providing additional forensic services unless the following conditions are met: (1) The victim is at least eighteen (18) years of age. (2) If the victim is less than eighteen (18) years of age, a report of the sex crime must be made to child protective services or a law enforcement officer. (3) The sex crime occurred in Indiana. If the division finds a compelling reason for failure to comply with the requirements of this section, the division may suspend the requirements of this section. (g) Costs incurred by a licensed medical service provider for the examination of the victim of a sex crime (under IC 35-42-4 ) not covered under IC 16-21-8 or incest (under IC 35-46-1-3 ) may not be charged to the victim of the crime if the examination is performed for the purposes of gathering evidence for possible prosecution. As added by P.L.47-1993, SEC.2. Amended by P.L.36-1997, SEC.5; P.L.121-2006, SEC.18; P.L.41-2007, SEC.1; P.L.129-2009, SEC.7; P.L.144-2024, SEC.11. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Indiana may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Toggle button Get free summaries of new Supreme Court of Indiana opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions