Indiana Code § 5-2-6.1-12. Persons Eligible for Assistance :: 2025 Indiana Code :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Indiana Code (here) 2024 Indiana Code 2023 Indiana Code View All Versions 2025 Indiana Code Title 5. State and Local Administration Article 2. Law Enforcement Chapter 6.1. Compensation for Victims of Violent Crimes 5-2-6.1-12. Persons Eligible for Assistance Universal Citation: IN Code § 5-2-6.1-12 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next Sec. 12. (a) Except as provided in sections 13 and 15 of this chapter, the following persons are eligible for assistance under this chapter: (1) A resident of Indiana who is a victim of a violent crime committed: (A) in Indiana; or (B) in a jurisdiction other than Indiana, including a foreign country, if the jurisdiction in which the violent crime occurs does not offer assistance to a victim of a violent crime that is substantially similar to the assistance offered under this chapter. (2) A nonresident of Indiana who is a victim of a violent crime committed in Indiana. (3) If a victim died as a result of a violent crime, the victim's: (A) surviving spouse; (B) dependent child; or (C) family member who incurred expenses related to the victimization of the victim. (4) Any other person legally dependent for principal support upon a victim of a violent crime who died as a result of that crime. (5) A person who is injured or killed while trying to prevent a violent crime or an attempted violent crime from occurring in the person's presence or while trying to apprehend a person who had committed a violent crime. (6) A surviving spouse or dependent child of a person who dies as a result of: (A) trying to prevent a violent crime or an attempted violent crime from occurring in the presence of the deceased person; or (B) trying to apprehend a person who had committed a violent crime. (7) A person legally dependent for principal support upon a person who dies as a result of: (A) trying to prevent a violent crime or an attempted violent crime from occurring in the presence of the deceased person; or (B) trying to apprehend a person who had committed a violent crime. (8) A person who is injured or killed while giving aid and assistance to: (A) a law enforcement officer in the performance of the officer's lawful duties; or (B) a member of a fire department who is being obstructed from performing lawful duties. (b) A legal dependent who witnesses a violent crime in which the legal dependent's parent or guardian suffers bodily injury or death may be eligible for limited assistance under this chapter, as determined by the division. As added by P.L.47-1993, SEC.2. Amended by P.L.36-1997, SEC.4; P.L.161-2013, SEC.1; P.L.113-2014, SEC.6; P.L.98-2022, SEC.2. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Indiana may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Toggle button Get free summaries of new Supreme Court of Indiana opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions