Indiana Code § 5-2-6.1-16. Applications for Assistance :: 2025 Indiana Code :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Indiana Code (here) 2024 Indiana Code 2023 Indiana Code View All Versions 2025 Indiana Code Title 5. State and Local Administration Article 2. Law Enforcement Chapter 6.1. Compensation for Victims of Violent Crimes 5-2-6.1-16. Applications for Assistance Universal Citation: IN Code § 5-2-6.1-16 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next Sec. 16. (a) A person eligible for assistance under section 12 of this chapter may file an application for assistance with the division. (b) Except as provided in subsections (e) and (f), the application must be received by the division not more than one hundred eighty (180) days after the date the crime was committed. The division may grant an extension of time for good cause shown by the claimant. However, and except as provided in subsections (e) and (f), the division may not accept an application that is received more than two (2) years after the date the crime was committed. (c) The application must be filed in the office of the division in person, through the division's website, or by first class or certified mail. If requested, the division shall assist a victim in preparing the application. (d) The division shall accept all applications filed in compliance with this chapter. Upon receipt of a complete application, the division shall promptly begin the investigation and processing of an application. (e) An alleged victim of a child sex crime may submit an application to the division until the victim becomes thirty-one (31) years of age or in accordance with subsection (f). (f) An alleged victim of a child sex crime described in IC 35-41-4-2 (e) which meets the requirements of IC 35-41-4-2 (p) may submit an application to the division not later than five (5) years after the earliest of the date on which: (1) the state first discovers evidence sufficient to charge the offender with the offense through DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) analysis; (2) the state first becomes aware of the existence of a recording (as defined in IC 35-31.5-2-273 ) that provides evidence sufficient to charge the offender with the offense; or (3) a person confesses to the offense. (g) An alleged victim of a battery offense included in IC 35-42-2 upon a child less than fourteen (14) years of age may submit an application to the division not later than five (5) years after the commission of the offense. As added by P.L.47-1993, SEC.2. Amended by P.L.121-2006, SEC.9; P.L.48-2012, SEC.5; P.L.238-2015, SEC.2; P.L.65-2016, SEC.2; P.L.31-2020, SEC.1; P.L.20-2024, SEC.11; P.L.1-2025, SEC.38. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Indiana may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Toggle button Get free summaries of new Supreme Court of Indiana opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions