CJI: Victim Compensation: Frequently Asked Questions Close Menu Frequently Asked Questions Victim Compensation Current: Frequently Asked Questions Help is available to you at any point in this process. Contact your claims analyst with any questions, comments or concerns. Frequently Asked Questions What is the maximum compensation? The maximum award amount is $20,000, which is broken down into two categories: $15,000 is available to help cover certain costs incurred as a result of a violent crime and an additional $5,000 can be used to recoup funeral and burial costs, exclusively. Do I need an attorney to file a claim? It is not necessary to hire an attorney to apply for Violent Crime Victim Compensation or to appeal a decision of the division. However, a claimant may elect to hire an attorney to represent them at the appeal hearing. Please keep in mind that attorney's fees are only awarded in cases heard at an administrative hearing and receive a ruling in the claimants favor. For a written copy of this document, please contact the Victim Compensation Division of the Indiana Criminal Justice Institute. Does an arrest have to be made before I file a claim? No. It is possible the offender may not be identified or arrested. What happens after I file my application? The Violent Crime Victim Compensation program staff will review the application to determine eligibility. If additional information is needed, you will receive a written explanation of what is needed. Results of staff investigations and the decision regarding financial assistance will be sent to applicants by mail or if appropriate through electronic correspondence. How long does it take to process a claim? Each situation is unique depending on circumstances such as complexity of the claim and current volume. Claims are typically processed within a few months, but incomplete applications, missing documentation and suspended claims may delay the process. How can I check on the status of my claim? Claimants can check on the status of their claim by calling the toll-free number and asking for their assigned claims analyst. What does payer of last resort mean? Payer of last means that all other sources of compensation must be exhausted before ICJI can pay the claimant for "out-of-pocket" losses related to the crime. For instance, benefits must first be obtained from sources such as workers' compensation, health insurance, automobile or homeowner’s/renter's insurance, disability, social security benefits, veteran's benefits and the like, before ICJI can pay you for your losses associated with the crime. Therefore, the final award may be reduced by the amount of benefits covered by insurance, unemployment compensation, Social Security, public funds (including Medicare or Medicaid) or any other source. Note: If you do receive Violent Crime Victim Compensation funds and later receive an insurance settlement or court-ordered restitution covering the same loss paid by the fund, YOU MUST REPAY THAT AMOUNT TO THE STATE OF INDIANA . How are payments made? As the payer of last resort, service providers are paid first. Out of pocket reimbursements, lost wages and loss of support are paid last if funds are still available. The division may make an award in full, in part, or deny an application altogether. In the event that approved expenses exceed the maximum award of $15,000, the division will divide the award among the providers. What if I am not satisfied with the decision? Applicants have 30 days from the date of a denial notice to send a written request for an administrative hearing. A hearing date will be set, and the applicant will be notified of the time and location. Appeal hearings are held at the Indiana Government Center in Indianapolis. What if I was assaulted in another state but treated at an Indiana facility? If the victim was assaulted in another state but is treated in an Indiana facility, that facility must follow the laws of the state where the crime occurred. Is emergency funding available? Emergency funding may be available to assist victims of crime who are faced with an immediate financial hardship resulting from the crime that has led to the need of services. An application must be filed before an emergency award determination is made. How does ICJI protect privacy? To maintain confidentiality, information will only be provided to the legal applicant, unless the division receives written authorization from the victim or claimant to speak to a third party. What state statutes guide the program? Compensation for Victims; IC 5-2-6.1 Emergency Svs to Sex Crime Victims; IC 16-21-8 Victim Services Division Admin Procedure; 203 IAC 1, et seq. I Want To Apply for the Exoneration Fund Find the right child car seat File a violent-crime victim compensation claim Apply for ICJI grants Be notified of new grant availabilities Online Services IntelliGrants Death in Custody Reporting Tool Operation Pull Over Database Quest Juvenile Stays Log More IN.gov Online Services IN.gov Subscriber Center Top FAQs