Indiana Code § 5-2-6.1-32. Reduction of Awards; Other Conditions :: 2025 Indiana Code :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Indiana Code (here) 2024 Indiana Code 2023 Indiana Code View All Versions 2025 Indiana Code Title 5. State and Local Administration Article 2. Law Enforcement Chapter 6.1. Compensation for Victims of Violent Crimes 5-2-6.1-32. Reduction of Awards; Other Conditions Universal Citation: IN Code § 5-2-6.1-32 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next Sec. 32. (a) The division shall reduce an award made under this chapter by the amount of benefits received or to be received from the following sources if those benefits result from or are in any manner attributable to the bodily injury or death upon which the award is based: (1) Benefits from public or private pension programs, including Social Security benefits. (2) Benefits from proceeds of an insurance policy. (3) Benefits under IC 22-3-2 through IC 22-3-6 . (4) Unemployment compensation benefits. (5) Benefits from other public funds, including Medicaid and Medicare. Compensation must be further reduced or denied to the extent that the claimant's loss is recouped from other collateral sources. (b) The division shall further reduce an award under this chapter by the following: (1) The amount of court ordered restitution actually received by the claimant from the offender. (2) Benefits actually received by the claimant from a third party on behalf of the offender. (c) The division shall determine whether the claimant vigorously pursued recovery against available collateral sources described in this section. (d) If the division finds that a claimant has failed to pursue an applicable collateral source of recovery, the division shall reduce or deny an award under this section by the amount that is available to the claimant through the collateral source. (e) A claimant must exhaust any paid or otherwise compensated vacation leave, sick leave, personal leave, or other compensatory time accrued through an employer before applying for benefits. The division may not reimburse the claimant for the use of paid or otherwise compensated vacation leave, sick leave, personal leave, or other compensatory time. As added by P.L.47-1993, SEC.2. Amended by P.L.7-2003, SEC.1; P.L.121-2006, SEC.14; P.L.161-2013, SEC.6; P.L.113-2014, SEC.11. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Indiana may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Toggle button Get free summaries of new Supreme Court of Indiana opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions