CJI: Victim Compensation: Rights of Victims of Sexual Assault Close Menu Rights of Victims of Sexual Assault Victim Compensation Current: Rights of Victims of Sexual Assault The following rights of victims of sexual assault attach whenever a victim is subject to a forensic medical examination or an interview by a law enforcement officer in relation to injuries, trauma, or an investigation resulting from an alleged sexual assault. You retain these rights regardless of whether you agree to participate in any civil or criminal proceeding related to the assault and regardless of whether you consent to a forensic medical examination to collect forensic evidence related to the alleged sexual assault. You have the right to be informed of your rights as a victim under Indiana law before the commencement of any forensic medical examination or an interview by a law enforcement officer. You have the right to speak with a victim advocate or victim service provider during any hospital visit for the purpose of receiving a sexual assault examination. If a victim advocate or victim service provider is not available, you have the right to speak with victim’s assistance or a social worker. You retain these rights even if you have waived one or more of these rights in a previous examination or interview. You have the right to speak with a victim advocate or victim service provider during the course of the investigation. If a victim advocate or victim service provider is not available, you have the right to speak with victim’s assistance or a social worker. You retain these rights even if you have waived one or more of these rights in a previous examination or interview. Your private communications with a victim advocate, victim service provider, victim’s assistance, or a social worker are not admissible into evidence for any purpose except with your consent. A provider shall provide forensic medical exams and additional forensic services to you without charge. You have the right to be treated with fairness, dignity and respect and free from intimidation, harassment and abuse throughout the criminal justice process. You have the right to be provided with a forensic medical exam and additional forensic services without charge. You can ask the person administering your exam whether they have been trained to do so. You have the right to decline any part of the sexual assault examination. You have the right to a shower at the medical facility after the examination. Signing this document indicates that you have read and understand your rights. Acknowledgement of receipt What expenses are covered by CJI? For victims of sexual assault, ICJI administers payment for certain costs associated with a forensic medical exam. These costs include (not limited to): a forensic medical exam, mental health counseling, certain diagnostic testing, initial pregnancy and follow-up pregnancy testing, certain laboratory testing for STDs, alcohol, drugs, suturing and care of wounds and other limited outpatient services. The approved costs will be paid by ICJI to the provider, pending certain conditions are met. Additionally, ICJI may also provide payment for: one follow-up pregnancy test, STD testing up to (30) days following the initial treatment, one syphilis test up to (90) days following the initial visit and mental health treatment up to $3,000. Services must be provided by a licensed mental health provider. How do I track the status of my sexual assault kit? In order to track the status of your sexual assault kit, please call 1-800-353-1484. Know Your Rights Brochure This brochure was created to help sexual assault victims in Indiana better understand their rights. To download the brochure, click the link below. Download brochure I Want To Apply for the Exoneration Fund Find the right child car seat File a violent-crime victim compensation claim Apply for ICJI grants Be notified of new grant availabilities Online Services IntelliGrants Death in Custody Reporting Tool Operation Pull Over Database Quest Juvenile Stays Log More IN.gov Online Services IN.gov Subscriber Center Top FAQs