Fla. Admin. Code Ann. R. 2A-2.2002 - Compensation Eligibility Requirements | State Regulations | US Law | LII / Legal Information Institute Please help us improve our site! × No thank you Fla. Admin. Code Ann. R. 2A-2.2002 - Compensation Eligibility Requirements State Regulations Compare (1) The victim/applicant has the ultimate responsibility to provide information and
				documentation needed to support eligibility and benefit payments under this
				rule. The victim/applicant must provide updated address and contact
				information, which shall be considered the address of record. When an
				incomplete application is received, the bureau will notify the victim/applicant
				at their address of record, or their email address if provided (exception for
				relocation benefit requests applies), of the information needed for eligibility
				determination and benefits. Required documents include: (a) Completed, signed, and dated application.
				Failure to fully complete, sign, or date the application or provide the
				requested documentation will cause delays and shall result in a denial of the
				claim. The application must include the type of benefits requested and provide
				all respective information required by the application form. (b) Acceptable proof of crime from the proper
				authorities or form BVC430 Law Enforcement Information Reporting Form (revised
				10/20) adopted and incorporated by reference at Rule 2A-2.2001 , F.A.C., documenting
				that: 1. A compensable crime
				occurred. 2. The victim did not
				contribute to the infliction of his or her injury or death. Contributory
				misconduct is based on information in writing from a proper authority that the
				victim's conduct contributed to his or her injury or death. Penalty
				assessments, if imposed, based on contribution will be applied only to payments
				made directly to the victim or applicant at the rate of 25 percent of the
				amount otherwise payable. A penalty assessment of more than 25 percent will
				result in the denial of benefits. 3. The victim did not act unlawfully. An
				establishment of unlawful activity is based on information in writing from a
				proper authority indicating that the victim's conduct at the time of crime was
				unlawful. 4. The crime was reported
				to the proper authorities within the required timeframe in which the incident
				was known to have occurred. 5. The
				victim has cooperated with the investigation and prosecution of known
				offenders. 6. Proof of third-party
				payments such as insurance, restitution, judgments or settlements (e.g., copy
				of insurance explanation of benefits, settlement agreements, court documents
				for restitution and judgments), if applicable. 7. Written materials that substantiate
				payment of the requested benefit type as described herein (includes proof of
				crime-related expenses). (2) Victim Compensation
				Benefits. (a) Collateral sources must
				be exhausted before any compensable benefit is determined payable, except loss
				of support and catastrophic disability. (b) Disability benefits. 1. Disability compensation is available to
				eligible victims who suffered a permanent whole body disability pursuant to
				Section 440.15(3)(b) ,
				F.S., as a result of the crime. a. The
				disability assessment must be in accordance with the American Medical
				Association's Guide to Evaluation of Permanent Impairment or the Florida
				Permanent Impairment Rating Guide. b. Verification that the victim has reached
				maximum medical improvement, or that the percentage of disablity will not
				change in lieu of maximum medical improvement, must be
				received. 2. The
				disability allowance is calculated at $250.00 per percentage point for
				disability ratings of one through ten percent, and $500.00 per percentage point
				for disability ratings of eleven percent and above, up to the maximum benefit
				amount on the Schedule of Benefits. 3. Pre-existing disability is not
				compensable. 4. The following is
				needed to calculate crime-related disability benefits: a. Form BVC409 Victim Compensation Treatment
				Disability Statement (revised 10/20) adopted and incorporated herein by
				reference, https://www.flrules.org/Gateway/reference.asp?No=Ref-12724 ,
				signed by the treating physician, dentist, psychiatrist, or
				chiropractor. b. If the
				documentation specified above cannot be obtained, a signed and dated written
				statement by the treating physician, dentist, psychiatrist, or chiropractor
				which specifies all the information provided on form BVC409 Victim Compensation
				Treatment Disability Statement shall be accepted. (c) Wage loss benefits. 1. Wage loss compensation is available to
				eligible victims: a. Who missed time from work
				because they were unable to work as a result of the physical injuries sustained
				as a result of the crime; and b. The victim's parent or legal guardian when he or she misses time from work to
				provide immediate medical care to the minor victim. 2. Lost wages are compensable within the
				timeframes established and up to the percentage and maximum benefit amount on
				the Schedule of Benefits, based on the victim/applicant's actual gross average
				weekly wage or maximum gross average weekly wage provided by the Department of
				Financial Services for Workers' Compensation Benefits. In no case may the wage
				loss payment exceed the maximum gross average weekly wage ("GAWW") established
				by the Department of Financial Services. 3. The victim or applicant must have been
				gainfully employed or accruing reemployment assistance benefits at the time of
				the crime. 4. The following is
				needed to calculate crime-related wage loss benefits: a. Form BVC405 Victim Compensation Wage Loss
				Employment Report (revised 10/20) adopted and incorporated herein by reference, https://www.flrules.org/Gateway/reference.asp?No=Ref-12725 ,
				which must be signed by the employer's human resources director or other
				authorized human resources supervisor, employee administrative services
				supervisor, chief financial officer, chief executive officer, president, or
				owner. b. If the documentation
				specified above cannot be obtained, the following documentation which specifies
				all the information provided on form BVC405 Victim Compensation Wage Loss
				Employment Report (revised 10/20) shall be accepted: i. The victim/applicant's individual earnings
				statement(s) showing loss of dates and income from work as a result of the
				crime; ii. Unemployment
				compensation (reemployment assistance) benefits statement when the victim was
				not employed at the time of the crime but was receiving unemployment
				compensation (reemployment assistance) benefits, and because of the crime
				injuries the victim is not able to work, or actively seek employment which
				disqualifies them from procuring unemployment compensation benefits; or, iii. Federal income tax for the
				quarter or year preceding the date of the crime (if self-employed or working
				for a family member). c. Form BVC409 Victim Compensation Treatment Disability Statement (revised 10/20)
				adopted and incorporated by reference above, signed by the treating physician,
				dentist, psychiatrist, or chiropractor. d. If the documentation specified above
				cannot be obtained, a signed and dated written statement by the treating
				physician, dentist, psychiatrist, or chiropractor which specifies all the
				information provided on form BVC409 Victim Compensation Treatment Disability
				Statement (revised 10/20) adopted and incorporated by reference above, shall be
				accepted. (d) Loss of support benefits. 1. Loss of support
				compensation is available to the following eligible persons: a. The surviving spouse; b. Dependent parent, sibling, and child(ren);
				and c. A person who was dependent
				for his or her principal support on the deceased victim. 2. Loss of support compensation is available
				to eligible dependents of a deceased victim or intervenor who was employed, was
				receiving reemployment assistance, or had applied for and would have been
				eligible for unemployment compensation benefits (reemployment assistance), at
				the time of the crime. 3. Benefits
				for loss of support are calculated by determining the earnings lost for a
				period of three years. The gross average weekly wage is multiplied by 52 weeks
				then multiplied by 3 years, to equal the total loss of support benefit up to
				the maximum benefit amount on the Schedule of Benefits. 4. Acceptable
				documentation for crime-related loss of support includes the following: a. Income tax returns showing earnings for
				one to three years preceding the date of the crime. If the claim will exhaust
				the maximum allowable benefit using just the year prior to the date of the
				crime, then only one year of tax documentation is necessary. If not, two or
				three years of prior tax documents for the years preceding the date of the
				crime are required to calcualte the gross average weekly wage. b. Reemployment assistance statements may be
				used in combination with tax documentation to calculate the gross average
				weekly wage. c. Alternatively, form
				BVC405 Victim Compensation Wage Loss Employment Report (revised 10/20), which
				is adopted and incorporated by reference above, may be submitted to document
				earnings preceding the crime. 4. Proof of dependency is established based
				on: a. The deceased victim's federal income
				tax return; b. Marriage
				certificate; c. Birth or death
				certificate; d. Copy of approval
				for Social Security Administration survivor benefits; e. A court order for support; or f. Documentation identifying joint expenses
				exceeding the applicant's income and that the expenses had been paid by the
				deceased. Acceptable documentation includes certified copies of financial
				records, leases, mortgages or other forms of mutual indebtedness for a minimum
				of one year preceding the occurrence of the
				crime. (e) Itemized bills must be submitted before payment to a provider or reimbursement
				to the victim/applicant can be considered pursuant to Sections 960.13 , 960.197 and 960.28 , F.S. 1. The itemized bill (invoice) should be
				prepared using industry standard forms (e.g., CMS-1450, 1500, J400), or on the
				provider's letterhead and must include the following information: a. Service provider/facility's name, street
				address, city, state and zip code, email address, and telephone number
				(including area code); b. Organization/treatment facility's mailing address; c. Federal tax identification
				number; d. Beginning and ending
				date(s) of service; e. Name and
				address of individual being billed for services rendered; f. Revenue code, description of service, CPT
				or equivalent code, service date, service units, and total charges; g. Diagnosis code, diagnosis, or nature of
				injury; and, h. First and last name
				of attending medical professional and license number. 2. Out-of-pocket reimbursement to the
				victim/applicant for qualified funeral/burial, mental health (includes grief
				counseling), medical/dental expenses, and crime scene cleanup shall be
				compensated at 100 percent, when services or treatment was rendered within the
				timeframes established and up to the maximum benefit amount on the Schedule of
				Benefits. 3. If the provider
				rejects payment in full from the bureau, funds may be paid to the
				victim/applicant, who is then responsible for the bill. 4. Costs for interpreter services for
				eligible victims with (foreign) language barriers and/or hearing impairment
				which allows victims to receive assistance in obtaining benefits and medical or
				mental health treatment services. These costs are included in the respective
				maximum benefit amounts and must be identified on an itemized bill. This does
				not apply to interpreter costs incurred for court-related activities which are
				not compensable. 5. If the offender
				would be unjustly enriched, either directly or indirectly, no reimbursement is
				compensable. (f) Funeral/burial expenses. 1. Funeral/burial
				compensation is available to eligible applicants when services were directly
				related to the crime and when such services were rendered by a qualified
				person. 2. The applicant must be
				identified on the funeral contract as the party who paid the funeral expenses
				or the party responsible for the unpaid funeral expense. 3. Funeral/burial expenses are considered
				expenses associated with the funeral, services that constitute a funeral,
				transporting the deceased victim's remains, burying, entombing, internment,
				cremation, procession, wake, or memorial ceremony held in honor or observation
				of the deceased and any other expenses which are not otherwise listed but are
				directly related to a funeral/memorial ceremony or the care of the decedent.
				With exception to religious practices, food, beverages, bereavement travel, and
				expenses associated with social events are not compensable. (g) Mental health treatment (inpatient and
				outpatient) expenses. 1. Treatment expenses
				include any financial obligation or monetary outlay for crime-related mental
				health or grief counseling services necessary as a result of the crime for
				which the victim/applicant is responsible for payment. Treatment expenses are
				compensable when the treatment is rendered by a person qualified to provide
				mental health counseling pursuant to Chapter 458, 490 or 491, F.S. 2. Inpatient mental health care is limited to
				acute, crisis stabilization up to seven days. 3. Minors who saw or heard the crime incident
				and who suffered a psychological or psychiatric injury as a result of the
				crime, but were not physically injured, may receive mental health care, when
				the law enforcement report reflects that the minor was present at the crime
				scene. 4. Minors younger than 18
				years of age who were the victim of a felony or misdemeanor offense of child
				abuse that resulted in a mental injury, as defined in Section 827.03 , F.S., but who were not
				physically injured, are eligible for mental health treatment
				benefits. 5. Persons who suffered a
				psychological or psychiatric injury as a direct result of a forcible felony may
				receive mental health care, when the law enforcement report identifies the
				individual as a victim of the crime. This is the only benefit available to
				adult victims who did not suffer a physical injury or death. 6. A surviving spouse, parent, stepparent,
				child or sibling of a deceased victim may receive mental health grief
				counseling. When more than one applicant applies, each adult applicant shall be
				eligible for benefits up to the maximum benefit amount on the Schedule of
				Benefits. 7. When a minor receiving
				mental health treatment care reaches the age of 18, the adult benefit maximum
				amount applies. If that benefit amount has already been paid, no further mental
				health or grief counseling benefits are available. 8. Reimbursement for transportation costs to
				mental health treatment appointments requires the submission of an itemized
				bill by the treating provider and a reasonable estimate of the mileage between
				the victim/applicant's residence. Rental car charges may be compensable for
				travel to another city for mental health treatment. A traveler who uses an
				indirect route for personal convenience must bear any extra costs;
				reimbursement for expenses shall be based only on such charges as would have
				been incurred by a usually-traveled route. (h) Medical/dental/non-medical remedial care
				treatment costs. 1. Treatment expenses include
				any financial obligation or monetary outlay for crime-related medical or
				non-medical remedial care and other services necessary as a result of the crime
				for which the victim/applicant is responsible for payment. 2. Crime-related medical expenses of a
				deceased adult victim incurred prior to his or her death are compensable only
				when an eligible applicant is financially responsible for the
				expense. 3. Medically necessary
				equipment (e.g., wheelchairs, oxygen tanks, and prosthetics) that are damaged
				during the crime are compensable when the law enforcement report specifically
				identifies what happened to those items. 4. Reimbursement for transportation costs to
				medical/dental treatment appointments requires the submission of an itemized
				bill by the treating provider and a reasonable estimate of the mileage between
				the victim/applicant's residence. A traveler who uses an indirect route for
				personal convenience must bear any extra costs; reimbursement for expenses
				shall be based only on such charges as would have been incurred by a
				usually-traveled route. (i) Crime scene cleanup. 1. Crime scene cleanup compensation is
				available to eligible victims/applicants for costs associated with the removal
				and disposal of biohazardous and/or biochemical substances following a violent
				crime that occurs in the private residence or conveyance of the victim. These
				services must be performed by a government-authorized provider within seven
				days after law enforcement officially releases the scene as a site closed for
				investigation. 2. Acceptable
				documentation for crime scene cleanup services includes an itemized bill which
				provides the following: a. Service
				provider/facility's name, street address, city, state and zip code, email
				address, and telephone number (including area code); b. Federal tax identification
				number; c. Date(s) of
				service; d. Date of occurrence of
				crime incident for which services are provided; e. Name and address of individual being
				billed for services rendered; f. Description of service, service date, service units, and total charges; and, g. Documentation must prove that
				services were performed within seven days from the crime incident, or be
				accompanied by documentation from law enforcement proving that services were
				performed within seven days after law enforcement released the scene as a site
				closed for investigation. (3) Property Loss Benefits. (a) Proof of disability predating the crime
				is required for persons between 18 and 60 years of age. Acceptable
				documentation includes: 1. Written statements
				from the Department of Veteran Affairs, the Social Security Administration, or
				the victim's treating physician; or 2. Form BVC410 Property Loss Disability
				Verification Form (revised 10/20) adopted and incorporated herein by reference, https://www.flrules.org/Gateway/reference.asp?No=Ref-12726 . (b) The law enforcement report must identify
				the victim as the owner of the tangible personal property and assign a value to
				the property for which compensation is sought. Alternatively, the law
				enforcement report must identify the property, and acceptable documentation of
				replacement costs for actual damage may be provided by the victim if the value
				or estimated damage is not known at the time the law enforcement report is
				made. (c) Acceptable documentation
				of replacement costs includes a receipt for purchase of the replacement item
				from a vendor or merchant, official published advertisement, or written
				estimate from a retail establishment for the cost of an equivalent item. The
				written estimate must be on company letterhead and must include the retailer's
				name, address, and an email or website address, if any. (d) Compensation may be paid for the cost of
				the item, plus tax, delivery and installation, up to the maximum benefit amount
				on the Schedule of Benefits. Victims/Applicants may apply and be eligible for
				issuance of the insurance waiver provision identified in Section 624.128 , F.S., regardless of
				whether the lifetime benefit has been exhausted. (e) Objects can be valued only at replacement
				cost, regardless of sentimental value. (f) Examples of compensable tangible personal
				property include one's eyeglasses, watch, clock, telephone, personal computer,
				wheelchair, medicine, tools of one's trade, oxygen tank, and mailbox. (g) Examples of property that is not
				compensable includes real property, abandoned property, cash or other
				negotiable instruments, contraband or other illicit items, exchange agreements,
				items that amount to a monetary loss, are intangible, or are cosmetic damage
				causing a devaluation of the property. (h) An application may be filed for each
				incident in which a tangible loss is incurred as the result of criminal or
				delinquent acts. However; multiple property losses and ongoing victimization
				within a reasonable period of time qualify as a single incident, and thus, only
				one application may be filed. (4) Relocation Benefits. (a) To be eligible for relocation assistance,
				the victim must contact and application must be made through a certified
				domestic violence or rape crisis center representative in the State of
				Florida. (b) Certified center
				representatives who qualify a victim's need for relocation assistance according
				to the requirements established in Section 960.196 , 960.198 , or 960.199 , F.S., shall use form
				BVC106 Relocation Certification Worksheet (revised 10/20) adopted and
				incorporated by reference, https://www.flrules.org/Gateway/reference.asp?No=Ref-12723 ,
				to certify their need. The center representative must verify that they have
				counseled the recipient in regards to all aspects of the program and the
				obligations and responsibilities for receiving the funds. The certification
				worksheet must accompany form BVC100 Bureau of Victim Compensation Claim Form
				(revised 10/20) adopted and incorporated by reference at Rule 2A-2.2001 , F.A.C., for a claim
				to be determined eligible. Failure to submit a properly completed certification
				worksheet will result in the denial of benefits. (c) Documentation of how funds requested will
				be used must accompany the certification worksheet for a claim to be determined
				eligible. Written documentation of relocating to a new location for short-term
				interim shelter, rental agreements, or long-term leases will be accepted for
				purposes of this program. Acceptable documentation includes standard housing
				contracts signed by the property manager or landlord and the victim/applicant
				for tenant occupancy of a house, apartment, or piece of living space such as a
				room or guest house. In lieu of a standard housing contract, confirmation of
				the agreement using form BVC110 Notification of Residential Agreement (10/20)
				adopted and incorporated herein by reference, https://www.flrules.org/Gateway/reference.asp?No=Ref-12727 ,
				shall be used to document how funds will be used for relocation
				expenses. (d) It is the
				responsibility of the certified center representative to obtain and review
				personal identification documentation before certifying a victim's need for
				relocation assistance. The center is not required to forward any personal
				identification documentation to the bureau. (e) If approved, funds will be made payable
				to the victim/applicant in care of the respective certified domestic violence
				or rape crisis center where the certification of need was obtained. Payments
				shall be made in the form of a bank card, voucher, check, state warrant, or any
				other method determined by the bureau. Awards will be administered based on the
				availability of funds. The bureau shall determine how those funds are
				disbursed. (f) Certified center
				representatives who are distributing relocation assistance funds must witness
				the victim/applicant's acknowledgement of the terms and conditions for spending
				the award and acceptance of payment, in addition to verify the certification of
				need using form BVC421 Notification of Possible Recoupment and/or Prosecution
				for Fraud (revised 10/20) adopted and incorporated herein by reference, https://www.flrules.org/Gateway/reference.asp?No=Ref-12728 ,
				The center is responsible for submitting the recoupment form to the bureau upon
				collection. (g) If the victim has
				not accepted the funds at the center within 30 days of payment issuance, the
				center shall return the funds to the bureau and certification of need will be
				revoked. Upon receipt of the returned funds by the bureau, eligibility will be
				rescinded. (5) Domestic Violence Relocation Assistance. (a) Proof of a domestic violence crime which
				meets the definition of Section 741.28(2) ,
				F.S., must come from a proper authority. Only domestic violence crimes will be
				considered compensable for purposes of this benefit. (b) Certification of need for domestic
				violence relocation assistance must be received by the bureau within 30 days
				immediately following the occurrence of the domestic violence offense to
				demonstrate there is an immediate need to relocate. (c) "Immediate need" is defined as 30 days
				directly following the occurrence of the domestic violence offense, as defined
				in Section 741.28 , F.S. Exceptions include: 1. Victims for whom a convicted domestic
				violence offender is within 30 days of pending release from incarceration. In
				cases involving release, the original domestic violence offense report must be
				provided along with court or Department of Corrections documentation regarding
				pending release of the offender. 2. When law enforcement or the state attorney (or by delegation the assistant
				state attorney) says in writing there is a present need to relocate the victim
				due to the threat of further domestic violence. (6) Sexual Battery Relocation
				Assistance. (a) Proof of a sexual
				battery crime which meets the definition of Section 794.011 , F.S., must come from a
				proper authority. Only sexual battery crimes will be considered compensable for
				purposes of this benefit. (b) Certification of need for sexual battery relocation assistance must be received
				by the bureau within the statutory claim form filing time to demonstrate there
				is a reasonable fear for the victim's continued safety. (7) Human Trafficking Relocation
				Assistance. (a) Proof of a human
				trafficking crime which meets the definition of Section 787.06(3)(b), (d), (f) or
				(g) , F.S., must come from a proper authority.
				Only human trafficking involving the delineated sex crimes will be considered
				compensable for purposes of this benefit. (b) Certification for relocation assistance
				must be received by the bureau within 45 days immediately following the crime
				or an identifiable threat by a human trafficking offender to demonstrate the
				victim's need for urgent assistance to relocate. Exceptions to urgent
				assistance include: 1. Victims for whom a
				convicted human trafficking offender is within 30 days of pending release from
				incarceration. In cases involving release, the original human trafficking
				offense report must be provided along with court or Department of Corrections
				documentation regarding pending release of the offender. 2. When law enforcement, state attorney (or
				by delegation the assistant state attorney), statewide prosecutor, or federal
				prosecutor says in writing there is a present need to relocate the victim.
				Written verification must affirm there is an active ongoing investigation, and
				that the victim needs to relocate from an unsafe environment due to the threat
				of further violence which is directly related to the human trafficking
				offense. Notes Fla. Admin.
				  Code Ann. R. 2A-2.2002 Rulemaking Authority 960.045(1) FS. Law Implemented 960.03,
					 960.05, 960.065, 960.07, 960.09 960.12 , 960.13 , 960.15 , 960.16 , 960.17 , 960.18 , 960.195 , 960.197 , 960.198 , 960.199 FS. Adopted by Florida
				  Register Volume 47, Number 031, February 16, 2021 effective 3/1/2021 . New 3-1-21. State regulations are updated quarterly; we currently have two versions available.
                        Below is a comparison between our most recent version and the prior quarterly release. More comparison features will be added as we have more versions to compare. No prior version found. State Regulations Toolbox