Statutes & Constitution 
      :View Statutes 
    :
  
  Online Sunshine Skip to Menu | Skip to Main Content Home Senate House Citator Statutes, Constitution, & Laws of Florida Florida Statutes Search & Browse Download Search Statutes Search Tips Florida Constitution Laws of Florida Legislative & Executive Branch Lobbyists Information Center Joint Legislative Committees & Other Entities Joint Administrative Procedures Committee (JAPC) Joint Committee on Public Counsel Oversight(JCPO) Joint Legislative Auditing Committee (JLAC) Joint Legislative Budget Commission (JLBC) Joint Select Committee on Collective Bargaining (JSCB) Office of Program Policy Analysis & Government Accountability (OPPAGA) Auditor General Commission on Ethics Economic and Demographic Research (EDR) Florida Historic Capitol Florida Government Efficiency Task Force Legislative Employment Legistore Links The Florida Statutes The 2026 Florida Statutes Title XLVII CRIMINAL PROCEDURE AND CORRECTIONS Chapter 960 VICTIM ASSISTANCE View Entire Chapter F.S. 960.195 960.195 Awards to elderly persons or disabled adults for property loss. — (1) Notwithstanding the criteria in s. 960.13 , for crime victim compensation awards, the department may award a maximum of $500 on any one claim and a lifetime maximum of $1,000 on all claims to elderly persons or disabled adults who suffer a property loss that causes a substantial diminution in their quality of life when: (a) There is proof that a criminal or delinquent act was committed; (b) The criminal or delinquent act is reported to law enforcement authorities within: 1. Seventy-two hours, if such crime or act occurred before October 1, 2019; or 2. Five days, if such crime or act occurred on or after October 1, 2019, unless the department, for good cause shown, finds the delay to have been justified; (c) There is proof that the tangible personal property in question belonged to the claimant; (d) The claimant did not contribute to the criminal or delinquent act; (e) There is no other source of reimbursement or indemnification available to the claimant; and (f) The claimant would not be able to replace the tangible personal property in question without incurring a serious financial hardship. (2) The department may deny, reduce, or withdraw any award under subsection (1) upon finding that any claimant or award recipient has not duly cooperated with the state attorney, all law enforcement agencies, and the department. History. — s. 4, ch. 96-315; s. 16, ch. 2015-92; s. 70, ch. 2019-167. Copyright © 1995-2026 The Florida Legislature • Privacy Statement • Contact Us