Fla. Admin. Code Ann. R. 2A-2.2001 - Definitions | State Regulations | US Law | LII / Legal Information Institute Please help us improve our site! × No thank you Fla. Admin. Code Ann. R. 2A-2.2001 - Definitions State Regulations Compare (1) "Actual loss"
				means the amount of treatment expenses for medical, dental, mental health and
				grief counseling services; economic losses limited to lost wages, disability
				and catastrophic disability, or loss of support; crime scene cleanup costs; and
				funeral/burial expenses which are compensable by the Crimes Compensation Trust
				Fund. (2) "Application" refers to a
				signed and dated form BVC100 Bureau of Victim Compensation Claim Form (revised
				08/24) adopted and incorporated herein by reference, https://www.flrules.org/Gateway/reference.asp?No=Ref-16953 ,
				which must be submitted by mail to the Office of the Attorney General, Bureau
				of Victim Compensation, PL-01, The Capitol, Tallahassee, FL 32399-1050 or faxed
				to (850)414-6197 or (850)414-5779, emailed to VCIntake@myfloridalegal.com, or
				submitted via the web-portal at https://VANext.MyFloridaLegal.com ,
				in order to apply for any benefits. For a faxed application to be timely
				submitted, the transmittal cover page must bear a faxed date stamp that is
				within the statutory filing time. An application must be fully completed and
				received by the bureau in order to be considered for compensation. (3) "Division" means the Division of Victim
				Services and Criminal Justice Programs within the Department of Legal Affairs,
				Office of the Attorney General. (4) "Bureau" means the Bureau of Victim Compensation (BVC) within the Division of
				Victim Services and Criminal Justice Programs within the Department of Legal
				Affairs, Office of the Attorney General. (5) "Victim/applicant" is either a person who
				meets the definition of victim pursuant to Section 960.03(14) ,
				F.S., or a person who submits an application on behalf of a minor, deceased, or
				incompetent person who meets the definition of victim pursuant to Section 960.03(14) ,
				F.S. The following persons are eligible to file a claim: (a) Victim or intervenor; (b) Surviving spouse, parent, stepparent,
				adult child or sibling of a deceased victim; (c) Guardian applying on behalf of a minor
				victim, incompetent person, surviving minor child of a deceased victim, or
				surviving minor sibling of a deceased victim; (d) Relative applying on behalf of a deceased
				victim when there is no other source for payment of funeral expenses; (e) Non-relative applying for funeral
				benefits on behalf of a deceased victim when no family member is available to
				pay for funeral expenses; or, (f) Other person applying for loss of support benefits who was dependent on the
				deceased victim or intervenor's income for principal support. (6) Mitigating or special
				circumstances, pursuant to Section 960.065(3) ,
				F.S., only exist when an eligible minor victim, who cannot otherwise apply, has
				no qualified applicant available to apply on the minor victim's behalf. In such
				cases, payments will only be made to treatment providers and no funds shall be
				paid directly or indirectly to the applicant. (7) "Guardian" means: (a) A parent or stepparent of a minor
				child; (b) A person who has been
				appointed by the court to act on behalf of a ward's person or property, or
				both; (c) A court-appointed
				guardian of funds for a minor; (d) A relative who has temporary legal custody of a minor for treatment expenses;
				or (e) A personal representative on
				behalf of a mentally incompetent person with a durable power of attorney that
				preceded the incompetence. (8) "Resident" means one who maintains his or
				her primary dwelling in Florida. Residency is governed by a person's intent, as
				evidenced by all surrounding facts and circumstances. Military personnel
				stationed in Florida and students shall be deemed residents for purposes of
				this program. (9) "Proper
				authorities" means state and federal law enforcement officials and prosecuting
				attorneys. (10) "Proof of crime"
				refers to the following documentation from a proper authority: (a) A law enforcement report that affirms a
				crime occurred, regardless of whether an offender can be identified; (b) An affidavit charging an individual with
				a crime filed by law enforcement; (c) An information charging an individual
				with a crime filed by a state attorney; (d) An indictment by a grand jury; (e) A written communication from any federal
				law enforcement agency; (f) A
				cybercrime investigator may certify a crime for purposes of Section 960.197 , F.S.; or (g) A completed form BVC430 Law Enforcement
				Information Reporting Form (revised 10/20) adopted and incorporated herein by
				reference, https://www.flrules.org/Gateway/reference.asp?No=Ref-12721 .
				The form BVC430 Law Enforcement Reporting Form is available only from the
				bureau. When acceptable proof identifying a compensable crime occurred, the
				claim should be determined eligible, without regard to the offense to which the
				offender eventually pled or was convicted of, provided the remaining
				eligibility criteria are met. (11) "Compensable crime" is an offense as
				defined in Section 960.03(3) ,
				F.S. (12) "Occurrence" means the
				date the crime incident actually happened. (13) "Unjust enrichment" means the offender
				will benefit directly or indirectly from victim compensation assistance paid to
				the victim/applicant, or the victim's total payments from victim compensation
				and collateral sources will exceed the victim/applicant's compensable monetary
				losses due to the crime upon which the application is based. (14) "Forcible felony" is defined in Section 776.08 , F.S. (15) "Cooperation" is established in Sections 960.13(1)(b)(2) , 960.196(2)(c) , 960.198(2)(d) ,
				and 960.199(2)(d) ,
				F.S., which refers to the requirement that the victim cooperate with the proper
				authorities in investigating and/or prosecuting known offenders. (a) An establishment of non-cooperation must
				be obtained in writing from a proper authority based on information that
				indicates that the victim: 1. Failed, after
				proper notice, to appear when requested by law enforcement, the state attorney,
				or an assistant state attorney; 2. Failed to testify or assist in the investigation and prosecution; 3. Gave false or misleading information
				regarding the crime without recanting; or 4. Aided the offender in his or her
				defense. (b) If an
				arrest has been made and the criminal case is at the prosecution stage, the
				assessment of non-cooperation must be based on information obtained from the
				state attorney. If the case is open at the local law enforcement agency, the
				assessment of non-cooperation must be based on information obtained from law
				enforcement. (c) Upon learning that
				the victim has not cooperated, the bureau shall deny, reduce, or withdraw any
				award for compensation, unless the victim/applicant provides an explanation for
				not cooperating which demonstrates good cause. 1. Good cause for non-cooperation is
				demonstrated when the record shows the victim/applicant already moved outside
				the geographical vicinity where he or she resided and has no means of providing
				sworn testimony by phone or in person; the victim/applicant is planning to
				leave the vicinity and cannot be available to assist proper authorities; the
				victim is in fear of the abuser; a language or cultural barrier precludes
				effective communication with proper authorities; the victim was a minor at the
				time of crime. 2. Explanations
				provided to the proper authorities documented on the proof of crime may be used
				to render a determination of good cause. 3. In lieu of submitting a written
				explanation, any person applying for benefits who has been determined to be
				non-cooperative, may submit form BVC104 Non-Cooperation Explanation Form
				(revised 10/20), adopted and incorporated herein by reference, https://www.flrules.org/Gateway/reference.asp?No=Ref-12722 . (16) "Filing Time" is
				established in Sections 960.07(2), (3),
				(4) , and 960.196(2) ,
				F.S. For crimes occurring before October 1, 2019, applications must be received
				within one year after the crime; the crime related death of the victim or
				intervenor; the date the death of the victim or intervenor is determined to be
				the result of a crime; or, within two years with good cause shown. For crimes
				occurring on or after October 1, 2019, applications must be received within
				three years after the crime; the crime related death of the victim or
				intervenor; the date the death of the victim or intervenor is determined to be
				the result of a crime; or, within five years with good cause shown. When a
				claim is received later than the one or three year filing time required, the
				victim/applicant must provide an explanation for the late filing which
				demonstrates good cause for the delay. Alternatively, form BVC102 Filing Time
				Explanation Form (revised 10/20), adopted and incorporated herein by reference https://www.flrules.org/Gateway/reference.asp?No=Ref-12729 ,
				may be used by the victim/applicant in lieu of submitting other written
				explanation. (a) Good cause for filing a late
				application is demonstrated when the record shows: 1. The victim/applicant was pursuing other
				means of recourse; 2. The
				victim/applicant was not emotionally, mentally, or physically able to file the
				claim; 3. The victim/applicant was
				unaware that a compensation program exists; or 4. A language or cultural barrier hinders the
				access needed to timely file the claim. (b) No explanation for good cause is
				acceptable for claims filed outside the statutorily established filing
				deadlines. (17) "Reporting time" is established in Sections 960.13(1)(b) , 960.195(1)(b) ,
				and 960.196(2)(b) ,
				F.S., which refers to the time requirement during which the crime must be
				reported to a proper authority after the crime is known to have occurred. For
				crimes occurring before October 1, 2019, the crime must be reported to the
				proper authority within 72 hours after the crime is known to have occurred. For
				crimes occurring on or after October 1, 2019, the crime must be reported to the
				proper authority within 120 hours after the crime is known to have occurred.
				When the crime was reported to the proper authorities beyond the reporting
				requirement, the victim/applicant must provide an explanation for the late
				reporting which demonstrates good cause for the delay. Alternatively, form
				BVC103 Reporting Time Explanation Form (revised 10/20), adopted and
				incorporated herein by reference, https://www.flrules.org/Gateway/reference.asp?No=Ref-12730 ,
				may be used by the victim/applicant in lieu of submitting other written
				explanation. (a) Good cause for late reporting
				is demonstrated when the record shows: 1. The
				victim/applicant was unaware that a crime had occurred; 2. The victim believed that the proper
				authorities had already been notified; 3. The victim was not in the vicinity to
				report the incident to the proper authorities in the manner in which the proper
				authorities directed; 4. There was
				no knowledge that a crime was committed prior to reporting the incident to the
				proper authorities; 5. The
				victim/applicant was not emotionally, mentally, or physically able to report
				the incident; 6. The
				victim/applicant believed that the proper authorities had been contacted and a
				report was filed; 7. The victim
				is/was a minor at the time of the incident; 8. The victim/applicant expressed feelings of
				shame, remorse, or embarrassment which prevented them from contacting the
				proper authorities; fear of retaliation or retribution by the offender, the
				offender's family, or the offender's acquaintances which was communicated to
				the proper authorities; or 9. A
				language or cultural barrier precludes effective communication with the proper
				authorities. (18) "Economic loss" means wage loss, loss of
				support, and disability including catastrophic disability. (19) "Provider" means the entity that
				provides goods, services, or treatment to or on behalf of the victim. (20) "Treatment" includes services rendered
				in accordance with a religious method of healing, e.g., religious practitioner
				and cultural healing practices that use herbal remedies. (21) "Medical/Dental Equipment" means
				prescriptions, eyeglasses, contact lenses, dentures or any other prosthetic
				device which needs to be purchased or replaced as a result of the
				crime. (22) "Physical injury" means
				bodily harm or hurt, excluding mental distress, fright, or emotional
				disturbance. (23) "Psychiatric
				injury" and "psychological injury" mean emotional injury. These terms are used
				interchangeably and satisfy the requirement for physical injury pursuant to
				Section 960.03 , F.S., if inflicted as
				the result of a forcible felony. (24) "Mental Injury" means an injury to the
				intellectual or psychological capacity of a child abuse victim as evidenced by
				a discernible and substantial impairment in the ability of the child to
				function within the normal range and behavior as verified by a psychologist
				licensed under Chapter 490, F.S., a physician who is licensed under Chapter 458
				or 459, F.S., and has completed an accredited residency in psychiatry, or a
				physician who has obtained expert witness certification pursuant to Section 458.3175 , F.S. (25) "Crime scene cleanup" means the removal
				and disposal of biohazardous and/or biochemical substances following a violent
				crime that occurs in the private residence or conveyance of the victim and must
				be performed by a government-authorized provider. (26) "Abandoned property" means property that
				the owner voluntarily surrenders, relinquishes, or disclaims. (27) "Activities of daily living" for
				purposes of Section 960.195 , F.S., means the basic
				tasks of everyday life. (28) "Damage" means loss or injury to person or property. (29) "Intangible property" means property
				that lacks a physical existence. Examples include bank accounts, airtime,
				business goodwill, fees (impound, pawn shop, towing), options, stocks, points,
				or membership incentives. (30) "Loss" means the failure to keep possession of something. (31) "Property loss" means the loss of
				tangible personal property directly caused by a criminal or delinquent act. For
				purposes of Section 960.195 , F.S., the following are
				specifically excluded: abandoned property, cash or other negotiable
				instruments, contraband, or other illicit items. (32) "Replacement cost" means the cost of
				acquiring an asset that is as equally useful or productive as an asset
				previously held. (33) "Tangible
				personal property" means property that can be seen, weighed, measured, felt, or
				touched or is in any way perceptible to the senses. (34) "Substantial diminution" means the loss
				of the property directly impacts the victim's activities of daily
				living. (35) "Domestic violence" is
				defined in Section 741.28(2) ,
				F.S. (36) "Immediate need" is
				defined as 30 days directly following the occurrence of the domestic violence
				offense. (37) "Family or household
				member" is defined in Section 741.28(3) ,
				F.S. (38) "Sexual battery" is
				defined in Section 794.011 , F.S. (39) "Human trafficking" is defined in
				Section 787.06(3)(b), (d), (f), or
				(g) , F.S. (40) "Urgent assistance" is defined as 45
				days directly following the human trafficking offense, a subsequent event
				directly related to the crime, or an identifiable threat by a human trafficking
				offender. (41) "Certification" is
				established in Sections 960.196(2)(c), 960.198(2)(d), and 960.199(2)(d); F.S.,
				which refers to a signed and dated form BVC106 Relocation Certification
				Worksheet (revised 10/20), adopted and incorporated herein by reference, https://www.flrules.org/Gateway/reference.asp?No=Ref-12723 . (42) "Certified domestic violence center
				representative" and "certified rape crisis center representative" means a
				person who has been designated by the Office of the Attorney General to assist
				in the certification process for domestic violence, sexual battery, or human
				trafficing relocation benefits. Certified representatives are qualified to
				certify applications up to 2 years after completion of specialized training.
				Training certification is withdrawn when the certified representative resigns
				or is terminated from their existing position. (43) "Relocation assistance" compensation is
				defined as compensable housing expenses limited to short-term interim shelter,
				rental agreements, or long-term leases, and may include security deposits,
				application fees, and/or the first month's contractual payment. Notes Fla. Admin.
				  Code Ann. R. 2A-2.2001 Rulemaking Authority 960.045(1) FS.
					 Law Implemented 960.03, 960.05, 960.065, 960.07, 960.09 960.12 , 960.13 , 960.15 , 960.16 , 960.17 , 960.18 , 960.194 , 960.195 , 960.197 , 960.198 , 960.199 FS. Adopted by Florida
				  Register Volume 47, Number 031, February 16, 2021 effective 3/1/2021 , Amended by Florida
				  Register Volume 50, Number 168, August 27, 2024 effective 9/8/2024 . New 3-1-21. State regulations are updated quarterly; we currently have two versions available.
                        Below is a comparison between our most recent version and the prior quarterly release. More comparison features will be added as we have more versions to compare. No prior version found. State Regulations Toolbox