Statutes & Constitution 
      :View Statutes 
    :
  
  Online Sunshine Skip to Menu | Skip to Main Content Home Senate House Citator Statutes, Constitution, & Laws of Florida Florida Statutes Search & Browse Download Search Statutes Search Tips Florida Constitution Laws of Florida Legislative & Executive Branch Lobbyists Information Center Joint Legislative Committees & Other Entities Joint Administrative Procedures Committee (JAPC) Joint Committee on Public Counsel Oversight(JCPO) Joint Legislative Auditing Committee (JLAC) Joint Legislative Budget Commission (JLBC) Joint Select Committee on Collective Bargaining (JSCB) Office of Program Policy Analysis & Government Accountability (OPPAGA) Auditor General Commission on Ethics Economic and Demographic Research (EDR) Florida Historic Capitol Florida Government Efficiency Task Force Legislative Employment Legistore Links The Florida Statutes The 2026 Florida Statutes Title XLVII CRIMINAL PROCEDURE AND CORRECTIONS Chapter 960 VICTIM ASSISTANCE View Entire Chapter F.S. 960.07 960.07 Filing of claims for compensation. — (1) A claim for compensation may be filed by a person eligible for compensation as provided in s. 960.065 or, if such person is a minor, by his or her parent or guardian or, if the person entitled to make a claim is mentally incompetent, by the person’s guardian or such other individual authorized to administer his or her estate. (2) Except as provided in subsections (3) and (4), a claim must be filed in accordance with this subsection. (a)1. A claim arising from a crime occurring before October 1, 2019, must be filed within 1 year after: a. The occurrence of the crime upon which the claim is based. b. The death of the victim or intervenor. c. The death of the victim or intervenor is determined to be the result of a crime, and the crime occurred after June 30, 1994. 2. Upon a showing that a delay in filing a claim under this paragraph occurred because of a delay in the testing of, or a delay in the DNA profile matching from, a sexual assault forensic examination kit or biological material collected as evidence related to a sexual offense, a person who is eligible for compensation under subsection (1) may receive a waiver of any claim filing deadline. 3. For good cause based on reason other than a delay described in subparagraph 2., the department may extend the time for filing a claim under subparagraph 1. for a period not exceeding 2 years after such occurrence. (b)1. A claim arising from a crime occurring on or after October 1, 2019, must be filed within 3 years after the later of: a. The occurrence of the crime upon which the claim is based; b. The death of the victim or intervenor; or c. The death of the victim or intervenor is determined to be the result of the crime. 2. Upon a showing that a delay in filing a claim under this paragraph occurred because of a delay in the testing of, or a delay in the DNA profile matching from, a sexual assault forensic examination kit or biological material collected as evidence related to a sexual offense, a person who is eligible for compensation under subsection (1) may receive a waiver of any claim filing deadline. 3. For good cause based on a reason other than a delay described in subparagraph 2., the department may extend the time for filing a claim under subparagraph 1. for a period not to exceed 5 years after such occurrence. (3) The provisions of subsection (2) notwithstanding, if the victim or intervenor was under the age of 18 at the time the crime upon which the claim is based occurred, a claim may be filed in accordance with this subsection. (a) The victim’s or intervenor’s parent or guardian may file a claim on behalf of the victim or intervenor while the victim or intervenor is less than 18 years of age; (b) For a claim arising from a crime that occurred before October 1, 2019, when a victim or intervenor who was under the age of 18 at the time the crime occurred reaches the age of 18, the victim or intervenor has 1 year to file a claim; or (c) For a claim arising from a crime occurring on or after October 1, 2019, when a victim or intervenor who was under the age of 18 at the time the crime occurred reaches the age of 18, the victim or intervenor has 3 years to file a claim. Upon a showing that a delay in filing a claim occurred because of delay in the testing of, or a delay in the DNA profile matching from, a sexual assault forensic examination kit or biological material collected as evidence related to a sexual offense, a person who is eligible for compensation under this subsection may receive a waiver of any claim filing deadline. For good cause based on any other reason, the department may extend the time period allowed for filing a claim under paragraph (b) for an additional period not to exceed 1 year or under paragraph (c) for an additional period not to exceed 2 years. (4) The provisions of subsection (2) notwithstanding, a victim of a sexually violent offense as defined in s. 394.912 , may file a claim for compensation for counseling or other mental health services within: (a) One year after the filing of a petition under s. 394.914 , to involuntarily civilly commit the individual who perpetrated the sexually violent offense, if the claim arises from a crime committed before October 1, 2019; or (b) Three years after the filing of a petition under s. 394.914 , to involuntarily civilly commit the individual who perpetrated the sexually violent offense, if the claim arises from a crime committed on or after October 1, 2019. Upon a showing that a delay in filing a claim occurred because of delay in the testing of, or a delay in the DNA profile matching from, a sexual assault forensic examination kit or biological material collected as evidence related to a sexual offense, a person who is eligible for compensation under this subsection may receive a waiver of any claim filing deadline. (5) Claims may be filed in the Tallahassee office of the department in person or by mail. Any employee of the department receiving a claim for compensation shall, immediately upon receipt of such claim, mail the claim to the department at its office in Tallahassee. In no event and under no circumstances shall the rights of a claimant under this chapter be prejudiced or lost by the failure or delay of the employees of the department in mailing claims to the department in Tallahassee. (6) Upon filing of a claim pursuant to this chapter, in which there is an identified offender, the department shall promptly notify the state attorney of the circuit wherein the crime is alleged to have occurred. If within 10 days after such notification such state attorney advises the department that a criminal prosecution or delinquency petition is pending upon the same alleged crime and requests that action by the department be deferred, the department shall defer all proceedings under this chapter until such time as a trial verdict or delinquency adjudication has been rendered, and shall so notify such state attorney and claimant. When a trial verdict or delinquency adjudication has been rendered, such state attorney shall promptly notify the department. Nothing in this subsection shall limit the authority of the department to grant emergency awards pursuant to s. 960.12 . (7) The state attorney’s office shall aid claimants in the filing and processing of claims, as may be required. History. — s. 1, ch. 77-452; s. 7, ch. 80-146; s. 14, ch. 90-211; s. 5, ch. 91-23; s. 8, ch. 92-107; s. 21, ch. 92-287; s. 1, ch. 93-9; s. 10, ch. 94-342; s. 1712, ch. 97-102; s. 80, ch. 2000-139; s. 68, ch. 2019-167; s. 171, ch. 2020-2; s. 1, ch. 2023-303. Copyright © 1995-2026 The Florida Legislature • Privacy Statement • Contact Us