Statutes & Constitution 
      :View Statutes 
    :
  
  Online Sunshine Skip to Menu | Skip to Main Content Home Senate House Citator Statutes, Constitution, & Laws of Florida Florida Statutes Search & Browse Download Search Statutes Search Tips Florida Constitution Laws of Florida Legislative & Executive Branch Lobbyists Information Center Joint Legislative Committees & Other Entities Joint Administrative Procedures Committee (JAPC) Joint Committee on Public Counsel Oversight(JCPO) Joint Legislative Auditing Committee (JLAC) Joint Legislative Budget Commission (JLBC) Joint Select Committee on Collective Bargaining (JSCB) Office of Program Policy Analysis & Government Accountability (OPPAGA) Auditor General Commission on Ethics Economic and Demographic Research (EDR) Florida Historic Capitol Florida Government Efficiency Task Force Legislative Employment Legistore Links The Florida Statutes The 2026 Florida Statutes Title XLIII DOMESTIC RELATIONS Chapter 741 MARRIAGE; DOMESTIC VIOLENCE View Entire Chapter F.S. 741.403 741.403 Address confidentiality program; application; certification. — (1) An adult person, a parent or guardian acting on behalf of a minor, or a guardian acting on behalf of a person adjudicated incapacitated under chapter 744 may apply to the Attorney General to have an address designated by the Attorney General serve as the person’s address or the address of the minor or incapacitated person. To the extent possible within funds appropriated for this purpose, the Attorney General shall approve an application if it is filed in the manner and on the form prescribed by the Attorney General and if it contains all of the following: (a) A sworn statement by the applicant that the applicant has good reason to believe that the applicant, or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made, is a victim of domestic violence or dating violence, and that the applicant fears for his or her safety or his or her children’s safety or the safety of the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made. (b) A designation of the Attorney General as agent for purposes of service of process and for the purpose of receipt of mail. (c) The mailing address where the applicant can be contacted by the Attorney General, and the phone number or numbers where the applicant can be called by the Attorney General. (d) A statement that the new address or addresses that the applicant requests must not be disclosed for the reason that disclosure will increase the risk of domestic violence or dating violence. (e) The signature of the applicant and of any individual or representative of any office designated in writing under s. 741.408 who assisted in the preparation of the application, and the date on which the applicant signed the application. (2) Applications must be filed with the Office of the Attorney General. An application fee may not be charged. (3) Upon filing a properly completed application, the Attorney General shall certify the applicant as a program participant. Applicants shall be certified for 4 years following the date of filing unless the certification is withdrawn or invalidated before that date. The Attorney General shall by rule establish a renewal procedure. (4) A person who falsely attests in an application that disclosure of the applicant’s address would endanger the applicant’s safety or the safety of the applicant’s children or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made, or who knowingly provides false or incorrect information upon making an application, commits a misdemeanor of the second degree, punishable as provided in s. 775.082 or s. 775.083 . (5) Any person who attempts to gain access to a program participant’s actual address through fraud commits a felony of the third degree, punishable as provided in s. 775.082 , s. 775.083 , or s. 775.084 . (6) Any person who knowingly enters the address confidentiality program to evade prosecution of criminal laws or civil liability commits a felony of the third degree, punishable as provided in s. 775.082 , s. 775.083 , or s. 775.084 . History. — s. 3, ch. 98-404; s. 4, ch. 2026-91. Copyright © 1995-2026 The Florida Legislature • Privacy Statement • Contact Us