Statutes & Constitution 
      :View Statutes 
    :
  
  Online Sunshine Skip to Menu | Skip to Main Content Home Senate House Citator Statutes, Constitution, & Laws of Florida Florida Statutes Search & Browse Download Search Statutes Search Tips Florida Constitution Laws of Florida Legislative & Executive Branch Lobbyists Information Center Joint Legislative Committees & Other Entities Joint Administrative Procedures Committee (JAPC) Joint Committee on Public Counsel Oversight(JCPO) Joint Legislative Auditing Committee (JLAC) Joint Legislative Budget Commission (JLBC) Joint Select Committee on Collective Bargaining (JSCB) Office of Program Policy Analysis & Government Accountability (OPPAGA) Auditor General Commission on Ethics Economic and Demographic Research (EDR) Florida Historic Capitol Florida Government Efficiency Task Force Legislative Employment Legistore Links The Florida Statutes The 2026 Florida Statutes Title XLVII CRIMINAL PROCEDURE AND CORRECTIONS Chapter 960 VICTIM ASSISTANCE View Entire Chapter F.S. 960.199 960.199 Relocation assistance for victims of sexual battery. — (1) The department may award a one-time payment of up to $1,500 on any one claim and a lifetime maximum of $3,000 to a victim of sexual battery, as defined in s. 794.011 , who needs relocation assistance. (2) In order for an award to be granted to a victim for relocation assistance: (a) There must be proof that a sexual battery offense was committed. (b) The sexual battery offense must be reported to the proper authorities. (c) The victim’s need for assistance must be certified by a certified rape crisis center in this state. (d) The center’s certification must assert that the victim is cooperating with law enforcement officials, if applicable, and must include documentation that the victim has developed a safety plan. (e) The act of sexual battery must be committed in the victim’s place of residence or in a location that would lead the victim to reasonably fear for his or her continued safety in the place of residence. (3) Relocation payments for a sexual battery claim under this section shall be denied if the department has previously approved or paid out a human trafficking or domestic violence relocation claim under s. 960.196 or s. 960.198 to the same victim regarding the same incident. History. — s. 5, ch. 2012-155; s. 3, ch. 2014-160; s. 19, ch. 2015-92. Copyright © 1995-2026 The Florida Legislature • Privacy Statement • Contact Us