Statutes & Constitution 
      :View Statutes 
    :
  
  Online Sunshine Skip to Menu | Skip to Main Content Home Senate House Citator Statutes, Constitution, & Laws of Florida Florida Statutes Search & Browse Download Search Statutes Search Tips Florida Constitution Laws of Florida Legislative & Executive Branch Lobbyists Information Center Joint Legislative Committees & Other Entities Joint Administrative Procedures Committee (JAPC) Joint Committee on Public Counsel Oversight(JCPO) Joint Legislative Auditing Committee (JLAC) Joint Legislative Budget Commission (JLBC) Joint Select Committee on Collective Bargaining (JSCB) Office of Program Policy Analysis & Government Accountability (OPPAGA) Auditor General Commission on Ethics Economic and Demographic Research (EDR) Florida Historic Capitol Florida Government Efficiency Task Force Legislative Employment Legistore Links The Florida Statutes The 2026 Florida Statutes Title X PUBLIC OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND RECORDS Chapter 119 PUBLIC RECORDS View Entire Chapter F.S. 119.071 119.071 General exemptions from inspection or copying of public records. — (1) AGENCY ADMINISTRATION. — (a) Examination questions and answer sheets of examinations administered by a governmental agency for the purpose of licensure, certification, or employment are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. A person who has taken such an examination has the right to review his or her own completed examination. (b)1. For purposes of this paragraph, “competitive solicitation” means the process of requesting and receiving sealed bids, proposals, or replies in accordance with the terms of a competitive process, regardless of the method of procurement. 2. Sealed bids, proposals, or replies received by an agency pursuant to a competitive solicitation are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution until such time as the agency provides notice of an intended decision or until 30 days after opening the bids, proposals, or final replies, whichever is earlier. 3. If an agency rejects all bids, proposals, or replies submitted in response to a competitive solicitation and the agency concurrently provides notice of its intent to reissue the competitive solicitation, the rejected bids, proposals, or replies remain exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution until such time as the agency provides notice of an intended decision concerning the reissued competitive solicitation or until the agency withdraws the reissued competitive solicitation. A bid, proposal, or reply is not exempt for longer than 12 months after the initial agency notice rejecting all bids, proposals, or replies. (c) Any financial statement or other financial information necessary to verify the financial adequacy of a prospective bidder which an agency requires a prospective bidder to submit in order to prequalify for bidding or for responding to a solicitation for a road or any other public works project is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. This paragraph is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2029, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature. (d)1. A public record that was prepared by an agency attorney (including an attorney employed or retained by the agency or employed or retained by another public officer or agency to protect or represent the interests of the agency having custody of the record) or prepared at the attorney’s express direction, that reflects a mental impression, conclusion, litigation strategy, or legal theory of the attorney or the agency, and that was prepared exclusively for civil or criminal litigation or for adversarial administrative proceedings, or that was prepared in anticipation of imminent civil or criminal litigation or imminent adversarial administrative proceedings, is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution until the conclusion of the litigation or adversarial administrative proceedings. For purposes of capital collateral litigation as set forth in s. 27.7001 , the Attorney General’s office is entitled to claim this exemption for those public records prepared for direct appeal as well as for all capital collateral litigation after direct appeal until execution of sentence or imposition of a life sentence. 2. This exemption is not waived by the release of such public record to another public employee or officer of the same agency or any person consulted by the agency attorney. When asserting the right to withhold a public record pursuant to this paragraph, the agency shall identify the potential parties to any such criminal or civil litigation or adversarial administrative proceedings. If a court finds that the document or other record has been improperly withheld under this paragraph, the party seeking access to such document or record shall be awarded reasonable attorney’s fees and costs in addition to any other remedy ordered by the court. (e) Any videotape or video signal that, under an agreement with an agency, is produced, made, or received by, or is in the custody of, a federally licensed radio or television station or its agent is exempt from s. 119.07 (1). (f)1. Information relating to communications services locations, project proposals, and challenges submitted to the Department of Commerce under s. 288.9962 or pursuant to a federal broadband access grant program implemented by the Department of Commerce is confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution if such information is not otherwise publicly available and the release of such information would reveal: a. The location or capacity of communications network facilities; b. Communications network areas, including geographical maps indicating actual or proposed locations of network infrastructure or facilities; c. The features, functions, and capabilities of communications network infrastructure and facilities; d. Security, including cybersecurity, of the design, construction, and operation of the communications network and associated services and products; e. Specific customer locations; or f. Sources of funding or in-kind contributions for a project. 2. This exemption does not apply to any required functions of the department under s. 288.9962 relating to publishing a description of the proposed unserved areas to be served and the proposed broadband Internet speeds of the areas to be served as provided by the applicant and approved by the department. 3. This paragraph is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2028, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature. (2) AGENCY INVESTIGATIONS. — (a) All criminal intelligence and criminal investigative information received by a criminal justice agency prior to January 25, 1979, is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. (b) Whenever criminal intelligence information or criminal investigative information held by a non-Florida criminal justice agency is available to a Florida criminal justice agency only on a confidential or similarly restricted basis, the Florida criminal justice agency may obtain and use such information in accordance with the conditions imposed by the providing agency. (c)1. Active criminal intelligence information and active criminal investigative information are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. 2.a. A request made by a law enforcement agency to inspect or copy a public record that is in the custody of another agency and the custodian’s response to the request, and any information that would identify whether a law enforcement agency has requested or received that public record are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution, during the period in which the information constitutes active criminal intelligence information or active criminal investigative information. b. The law enforcement agency that made the request to inspect or copy a public record shall give notice to the custodial agency when the criminal intelligence information or criminal investigative information is no longer active so that the request made by the law enforcement agency, the custodian’s response to the request, and information that would identify whether the law enforcement agency had requested or received that public record are available to the public. c. This exemption is remedial in nature, and it is the intent of the Legislature that the exemption be applied to requests for information received before, on, or after the effective date of this paragraph. (d) Any information revealing surveillance techniques or procedures or personnel is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. Any comprehensive inventory of state and local law enforcement resources compiled pursuant to part I, chapter 23, and any comprehensive policies or plans compiled by a criminal justice agency pertaining to the mobilization, deployment, or tactical operations involved in responding to an emergency, as defined in s. 252.34 , are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution and unavailable for inspection, except by personnel authorized by a state or local law enforcement agency, the office of the Governor, the Department of Legal Affairs, the Department of Law Enforcement, or the Division of Emergency Management as having an official need for access to the inventory or comprehensive policies or plans. (e) Any information revealing the substance of a confession of a person arrested is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution, until such time as the criminal case is finally determined by adjudication, dismissal, or other final disposition. (f) Any information revealing the identity of a confidential informant or a confidential source is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. (g)1. All complaints and other records in the custody of any agency which relate to a complaint of discrimination relating to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, handicap, or marital status in connection with hiring practices, position classifications, salary, benefits, discipline, discharge, employee performance, evaluation, or other related activities are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution until a finding is made relating to probable cause, the investigation of the complaint becomes inactive, or the complaint or other record is made part of the official record of any hearing or court proceeding. a. This exemption does not affect any function or activity of the Florida Commission on Human Relations. b. Any state or federal agency that is authorized to have access to such complaints or records by any provision of law shall be granted such access in the furtherance of such agency’s statutory duties. 2. If an alleged victim chooses not to file a complaint and requests that records of the complaint remain confidential, all records relating to an allegation of employment discrimination are confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. (h)1. The following criminal intelligence information or criminal investigative information is confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution: a. Any information that reveals the identity of the victim of the crime of child abuse as defined by chapter 827 or that reveals the identity of a person under the age of 18 who is the victim of the crime of human trafficking proscribed in s. 787.06 (3)(a). b. Any information that may reveal the identity of a person who is a victim of any sexual offense, including a sexual offense proscribed in s. 787.06 (3)(b), (d), (f), or (g), chapter 794, chapter 796, chapter 800, chapter 827, or chapter 847. c. A photograph, videotape, or image of any part of the body of the victim of a sexual offense prohibited under s. 787.06 (3)(b), (d), (f), or (g), chapter 794, chapter 796, chapter 800, s. 810.145 , chapter 827, or chapter 847, regardless of whether the photograph, videotape, or image identifies the victim. 2. Criminal investigative information and criminal intelligence information made confidential and exempt under this paragraph may be disclosed by a law enforcement agency: a. In the furtherance of its official duties and responsibilities. b. For print, publication, or broadcast if the law enforcement agency determines that such release would assist in locating or identifying a person that such agency believes to be missing or endangered. The information provided should be limited to that needed to identify or locate the victim and not include the sexual nature of the offense committed against the person. c. To another governmental agency in the furtherance of its official duties and responsibilities. 3. This exemption applies to such confidential and exempt criminal intelligence information or criminal investigative information held by a law enforcement agency before, on, or after the effective date of the exemption. (i) Any criminal intelligence information or criminal investigative information that reveals the personal assets of the victim of a crime, other than property stolen or destroyed during the commission of the crime, is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. (j)1.a. For purposes of this subparagraph, the term: (I) “Family member” means a spouse, child, parent or legal guardian, or sibling. This term does not include the accused. (II) “Officer” means any full-time, part-time, or auxiliary law enforcement officer, correctional officer, or correctional probation officer certified under s. 943.13 . (III) “Victim” means a person who suffers direct or threatened physical, psychological, or financial harm as a result of the commission or attempted commission of a crime or delinquent act or against whom the crime or delinquent act is committed. The term does not include the accused. 1 b.(I) Any portion of a public record which reveals the identity, including the name or personal identification number, home or employment telephone number, home or employment address, or personal assets, of a victim, or any other information that could be used to locate, intimidate, harass, or abuse the victim, which identifies that person as the victim of a crime, and which is a public record that is generated or received by any agency that regularly generates or receives information from or concerning the victims of crime is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. (II) Any portion of a public record which reveals the identity, including the name or personal identification number, home or employment telephone number, home or employment address, or personal assets, of a lawful representative, family member, or next of kin of the person identified as a victim by the public record, or any other information that could be used to locate, intimidate, harass, or abuse such persons, and which is a public record that is generated or received by any agency that regularly generates or receives information from or concerning the victims of crime is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. This exemption does not apply to the accused, or to a lawful representative, family member, or next of kin of a victim upon a showing that the interest of such person would be in actual or potential conflict with the interests of the victim. (III)(A) Notwithstanding sub-sub-subparagraph (I), the portion of a public record exempted under sub-sub-subparagraph (I) which contains the name of an officer who became a victim in the course and scope of the officer’s employment or official duties is confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution for the first 72 hours after the incident in which the officer became a victim. These portions of a public record are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution for an additional 60 days after the expiration of the 72-hour period. After the expiration of the 60-day period, the portion of a public record which contains the name of an officer who became a victim in the course and scope of his or her employment or official duties and which identifies the officer as a victim is no longer exempt. (B) Sub-sub-sub-subparagraph (A) does not supersede the exemption provided for victims of sexual battery in sub-subparagraph (h)1.b. (IV) This sub-subparagraph is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2031, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature. If, after review, this sub-subparagraph is not reenacted, the text of this sub-subparagraph shall revert to that in existence on June 30, 2026, except that any amendments to this sub-subparagraph enacted other than by this act shall be preserved and continue to operate to the extent that such amendments are not dependent upon the amendments to the sub-subparagraph made by this act. c. Any information not otherwise held confidential or exempt from s. 119.07 (1) which reveals the home or employment telephone number, home or employment address, or personal assets of a person who has been the victim of sexual battery, aggravated child abuse, aggravated stalking, harassment, aggravated battery, or domestic violence is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution, upon written request by the victim, which must include official verification that an applicable crime has occurred. Such information shall cease to be exempt 5 years after the receipt of the written request. d. Any state or federal agency that is authorized to have access to such documents by any provision of law shall be granted such access in the furtherance of such agency’s statutory duties, notwithstanding this section. 2.a. Any information in a videotaped statement of a minor who is alleged to be or who is a victim of sexual battery, lewd acts, or other sexual misconduct proscribed in chapter 800 or in s. 794.011 , s. 827.071 , s. 847.012 , s. 847.0125 , s. 847.013 , s. 847.0133 , or s. 847.0145 , which reveals that minor’s identity, including, but not limited to, the minor’s face; the minor’s home, school, church, or employment telephone number; the minor’s home, school, church, or employment address; the name of the minor’s school, church, or place of employment; or the personal assets of the minor; and which identifies that minor as the victim of a crime described in this subparagraph, held by a law enforcement agency, is confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. Any governmental agency that is authorized to have access to such statements by any provision of law shall be granted such access in the furtherance of the agency’s statutory duties, notwithstanding the provisions of this section. b. A public employee or officer who has access to a videotaped statement of a minor who is alleged to be or who is a victim of sexual battery, lewd acts, or other sexual misconduct proscribed in chapter 800 or in s. 794.011 , s. 827.071 , s. 847.012 , s. 847.0125 , s. 847.013 , s. 847.0133 , or s. 847.0145 may not willfully and knowingly disclose videotaped information that reveals the minor’s identity to a person who is not assisting in the investigation or prosecution of the alleged offense or to any person other than the defendant, the defendant’s attorney, or a person specified in an order entered by the court having jurisdiction of the alleged offense. A person who violates this provision commits a misdemeanor of the first degree, punishable as provided in s. 775.082 or s. 775.083 . (k) A complaint of misconduct filed with an agency against an agency employee and all information obtained pursuant to an investigation by the agency of the complaint of misconduct is confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution until the investigation ceases to be active, or until the agency provides written notice to the employee who is the subject of the complaint, either personally or by mail, that the agency has either: 1. Concluded the investigation with a finding not to proceed with disciplinary action or file charges; or 2. Concluded the investigation with a finding to proceed with disciplinary action or file charges. (l)1. As used in this paragraph, the term: a. “Body camera” means a portable electronic recording device that is worn on a law enforcement officer’s body and that records audio and video data in the course of the officer performing his or her official duties and responsibilities. b. “Law enforcement officer” has the same meaning as provided in s. 943.10 . c. “Personal representative” means a parent, a court-appointed guardian, an attorney, or an agent of, or a person holding a power of attorney for, a person recorded by a body camera. If a person depicted in the recording is deceased, the term also means the personal representative of the estate of the deceased person; the deceased person’s surviving spouse, parent, or adult child; the deceased person’s attorney or agent; or the parent or guardian of a surviving minor child of the deceased. An agent must possess written authorization of the recorded person to act on his or her behalf. 2. A body camera recording, or a portion thereof, is confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution if the recording: a. Is taken within the interior of a private residence; b. Is taken within the interior of a facility that offers health care, mental health care, or social services; or c. Is taken in a place that a reasonable person would expect to be private. 3. Notwithstanding subparagraph 2., a body camera recording, or a portion thereof, may be disclosed by a law enforcement agency: a. In furtherance of its official duties and responsibilities; or b. To another governmental agency in the furtherance of its official duties and responsibilities. 4. Notwithstanding subparagraph 2., a body camera recording, or a portion thereof, shall be disclosed by a law enforcement agency: a. To a person recorded by a body camera; however, a law enforcement agency may disclose only those portions that are relevant to the person’s presence in the recording; b. To the personal representative of a person recorded by a body camera; however, a law enforcement agency may disclose only those portions that are relevant to the represented person’s presence in the recording; c. To a person not depicted in a body camera recording if the recording depicts a place in which the person lawfully resided, dwelled, or lodged at the time of the recording; however, a law enforcement agency may disclose only those portions that record the interior of such a place. d. Pursuant to a court order. (I) In addition to any other grounds the court may consider in determining whether to order that a body camera recording be disclosed, the court shall consider whether: (A) Disclosure is necessary to advance a compelling interest; (B) The recording contains information that is otherwise exempt or confidential and exempt under the law; (C) The person requesting disclosure is seeking to obtain evidence to determine legal issues in a case in which the person is a party; (D) Disclosure would reveal information regarding a person that is of a highly sensitive personal nature; (E) Disclosure may harm the reputation or jeopardize the safety of a person depicted in the recording; (F) Confidentiality is necessary to prevent a serious and imminent threat to the fair, impartial, and orderly administration of justice; (G) The recording could be redacted to protect privacy interests; and (H) There is good cause to disclose all or portions of a recording. (II) In any proceeding regarding the disclosure of a body camera recording, the law enforcement agency that made the recording shall be given reasonable notice of hearings and shall be given an opportunity to participate. 5. A law enforcement agency must retain a body camera recording for at least 90 days. 6. The exemption provided in subparagraph 2. applies retroactively. 7. This exemption does not supersede any other public records exemption that existed before or is created after the effective date of this exemption. Those portions of a recording which are protected from disclosure by another public records exemption shall continue to be exempt or confidential and exempt. (m) Criminal intelligence information or criminal investigative information that reveals the personal identifying information of a witness to a murder, as described in s. 782.04 , is confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution for 2 years after the date on which the murder is observed by the witness. A criminal justice agency may disclose such information: 1. In the furtherance of its official duties and responsibilities. 2. To assist in locating or identifying the witness if the agency believes the witness to be missing or endangered. 3. To another governmental agency for use in the performance of its official duties and responsibilities. 4. To the parties in a pending criminal prosecution as required by law. (n) Personal identifying information of the alleged victim in an allegation of sexual harassment or the victim of sexual harassment is confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution if such information identifies that person as an alleged victim or as a victim of sexual harassment. Confidentiality may be waived in writing by the alleged victim or the victim. Such information may be disclosed to another governmental entity in the furtherance of its official duties and responsibilities. This paragraph is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2027, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature. (o) The address of a victim of an incident of mass violence is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “incident of mass violence” means an incident in which four or more people, not including the perpetrator, are severely injured or killed by an intentional and indiscriminate act of violence of another. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “victim” means a person killed or injured during an incident of mass violence, not including the perpetrator. (p)1. As used in this paragraph, the term: a. “Killing of a law enforcement officer who was acting in accordance with his or her official duties” means all acts or events that cause or otherwise relate to the death of a law enforcement officer who was acting in accordance with his or her official duties, including any related acts or events immediately preceding or subsequent to the acts or events that were the proximate cause of death. b. “Killing of a minor” means all acts or events that cause or otherwise relate to the death of a victim who has not yet reached the age of 18 at the time of the death, including any related acts or events immediately preceding or subsequent to the acts or events that were the proximate cause of the death of a victim under the age of 18, events that depict a victim under the age of 18 being killed, or events that depict the body of a victim under the age of 18 who has been killed. c. “Killing of a victim of mass violence” means events that depict either a victim being killed or the body of a victim killed in an incident in which three or more persons, not including the perpetrator, are killed by the perpetrator of an intentional act of violence. d. “Suicide of a person” means events that depict the suicide of a person, the body of a person whose manner of death was suicide, or any portion of such person’s body. 2.a. A photograph or video or audio recording that depicts or records the killing of a law enforcement officer who was acting in accordance with his or her official duties or the killing of a victim of mass violence is confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution, except that a surviving spouse of the decedent may view and copy any such photograph or video recording or listen to or copy any such audio recording. If there is no surviving spouse, the surviving parents shall have access to such records. If there is no surviving spouse or parent, the adult children shall have access to such records. Nothing in this sub-subparagraph precludes a surviving spouse, parent, or adult child of the victim from sharing or publicly releasing such photograph or video or audio recording. b. A photograph or video or audio recording that depicts or records the killing of a minor is confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution, except that a surviving parent of the deceased minor may view and copy any such photograph or video recording or listen to or copy any such audio recording. Nothing in this sub-subparagraph precludes a surviving parent of the victim from sharing or publicly releasing such photograph or video or audio recording. c. A photograph or video or audio recording that depicts or records the suicide of a person is confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution, except that a surviving spouse of the deceased may view and copy any such photograph or video recording or listen to or copy any such audio recording. If there is no surviving spouse, the surviving parents must have access to such records. If there is no surviving spouse or parent, the adult children and siblings must have access to such records. This section does not preclude a surviving spouse, parent, adult child, or sibling of the victim from sharing or publicly releasing such photograph or video or audio recording. 3.a. The deceased’s surviving relative, with whom authority rests to obtain such records, may designate in writing an agent to obtain such records. b. Notwithstanding subparagraph 2., a local governmental entity, or a state or federal agency, in furtherance of its official duties, pursuant to a written request, may view or copy a photograph or video recording or may listen to or copy an audio recording of the killing of a law enforcement officer who was acting in accordance with his or her official duties, the killing of a victim of mass violence, the killing of a minor, or the suicide of a person, and, unless otherwise required in the performance of its duties, the identity of the deceased shall remain confidential and exempt. c. The custodian of the record, or his or her designee, may not permit any other person to view or copy such photograph or video recording or listen to or copy such audio recording without a court order. 4.a. The court, upon a showing of good cause, may issue an order authorizing any person to view or copy a photograph or video recording that depicts or records the killing of a law enforcement officer who was acting in accordance with his or her official duties, the killing of a victim of mass violence, the killing of a minor, or the suicide of a person or to listen to or copy an audio recording that depicts or records the killing of a law enforcement officer who was acting in accordance with his or her official duties, the killing of a victim of mass violence, the killing of a minor, or the suicide of a person and may prescribe any restrictions or stipulations that the court deems appropriate. b. In determining good cause, the court shall consider: (I) Whether such disclosure is necessary for the public evaluation of governmental performance; (II) The seriousness of the intrusion into the family’s right to privacy and whether such disclosure is the least intrusive means available; and (III) The availability of similar information in other public records, regardless of form. c. In all cases, the viewing, copying, listening to, or other handling of a photograph or video or audio recording that depicts or records the killing of a law enforcement officer who was acting in accordance with his or her official duties, the killing of a victim of mass violence, the killing of a minor, or the suicide of a person must be under the direct supervision of the custodian of the record or his or her designee. 5.a. A surviving spouse shall be given reasonable notice of a petition filed with the court to view or copy a photograph or video recording that depicts or records the killing of a law enforcement officer who was acting in accordance with his or her official duties or the killing of a victim of mass violence, or to listen to or copy any such audio recording, a copy of such petition, and reasonable notice of the opportunity to be present and heard at any hearing on the matter. If there is no surviving spouse, such notice must be given to the parents of the deceased and, if there is no surviving parent, to the adult children of the deceased. b. A surviving parent must be given reasonable notice of a petition filed with the court to view or copy a photograph or video recording that depicts or records the killing of a minor or to listen to or copy any such audio recording; a copy of such petition; and reasonable notice of the opportunity to be present and heard at any hearing on the matter. c. A surviving spouse shall be given reasonable notice of a petition filed with the court to view or copy a photograph or video recording that depicts or records the suicide of a person, or to listen to or copy any such audio recording; a copy of such petition; and reasonable notice of the opportunity to be present and heard at any hearing on the matter. If there is no surviving spouse, such notice must be given to the parents of the deceased and, if there is no surviving parent, to the adult children and siblings of the deceased. 6.a. Any custodian of a photograph or video or audio recording that depicts or records the killing of a law enforcement officer who was acting in accordance with his or her official duties, the killing of a victim of mass violence, the killing of a minor, or the suicide of a person who willfully and knowingly violates this paragraph commits a felony of the third degree, punishable as provided in s. 775.082 , s. 775.083 , or s. 775.084 . b. Any person who willfully and knowingly violates a court order issued pursuant to this paragraph commits a felony of the third degree, punishable as provided in s. 775.082 , s. 775.083 , or s. 775.084 . c. A criminal or administrative proceeding is exempt from this paragraph but, unless otherwise exempted, is subject to all other provisions of chapter 119; however, this paragraph does not prohibit a court in a criminal or administrative proceeding upon good cause shown from restricting or otherwise controlling the disclosure of a killing, crime scene, or similar photograph or video or audio recording in the manner prescribed in this paragraph. 7. The exemptions in this paragraph shall be given retroactive application and shall apply to all photographs or video or audio recordings that depict or record the killing of a law enforcement officer who was acting in accordance with his or her official duties, the killing of a victim of mass violence, the killing of a minor, or the suicide of a person, regardless of whether the killing or suicide of the person occurred before, on, or after May 23, 2019. However, nothing in this paragraph is intended to, nor may be construed to, overturn or abrogate or alter any existing orders duly entered into by any court of this state, as of the effective date of this act, which restrict or limit access to any photographs or video or audio recordings that depict or record the killing of a law enforcement officer who was acting in accordance with his or her official duties, the killing of a victim of mass violence, the killing of a minor, or the suicide of a person. 8. This paragraph applies only to such photographs and video and audio recordings held by an agency. 9. This paragraph is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2029, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature. (q)1. As used in this paragraph, the term: a. “Conviction integrity unit” means a unit within a state attorney’s office established for the purpose of reviewing plausible claims of actual innocence. b. “Conviction integrity unit reinvestigation information” means information or materials generated during a new investigation by a conviction integrity unit following the unit’s formal written acceptance of an applicant’s case. The term does not include: (I) Information, materials, or records generated by a state attorney’s office during an investigation done for the purpose of responding to motions made pursuant to Rule 3.800, Rule 3.850, or Rule 3.853, Florida Rules of Criminal Procedure, or any other collateral proceeding. (II) Petitions by applicants to the conviction integrity unit. (III) Criminal investigative information generated before the commencement of a conviction integrity unit investigation which is not otherwise exempt from this section. 2. Conviction integrity unit reinvestigation information is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution for a reasonable period of time during an active, ongoing, and good faith investigation of a claim of actual innocence in a case that previously resulted in the conviction of the accused person and until the claim is no longer capable of further investigation. (r)1. As used in this paragraph, the term: a. “DNA record” means all information associated with the collection and analysis of a person’s DNA sample, including the distinguishing characteristics collectively referred to as a DNA profile, and includes a single nucleotide polymorphism and a whole genome sequencing DNA profile. b. “Genetic genealogy” means the use of DNA testing in combination with traditional genealogical methods to infer relationships between persons and determine ancestry. c. “Investigative genetic genealogy” means the application of genetic genealogy and law enforcement investigative techniques to develop investigative leads in unsolved violent crimes and provide investigative leads as to the identity of unidentified human remains and living unidentified missing persons. d. “Investigative genetic genealogy information and materials” means the information, records, and DNA records created or collected by or on behalf of a law enforcement agency conducting investigative genetic genealogy research, and includes the names and personal identifying information of persons identified through the use of genealogy databases, traditional genealogical methods, or other investigative means. The term does not include the name or personal identifying information of: (I) The donor of a biological sample attributable to a perpetrator; or (II) A person identified through investigative genetic genealogy who is a witness to or has personal knowledge related to the crime under investigation. e. “Traditional genealogical methods” means the use of genealogical databases and historical records to trace the family lineage of a person. 2. Investigative genetic genealogy information and materials are confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. 3. Notwithstanding subparagraph 2., a law enforcement agency: a. May disclose investigative genetic genealogy information and materials in furtherance of its official duties and responsibilities or to another governmental agency in the furtherance of its official duties and responsibilities. b. Shall disclose investigative genetic genealogy information and materials pursuant to a court order for furtherance of a criminal prosecution. If a court orders the disclosure of such information and materials, the recipient of the information and materials must maintain the confidential and exempt status of the information and materials and may only publicly disclose the information and materials as necessary for purposes of a criminal prosecution as determined by the court. 4. The exemption in this paragraph applies to investigative genetic genealogy information and materials held by an agency before, on, or after July 1, 2023. 5. This paragraph is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2028, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature. (3) SECURITY AND FIRESAFETY. — (a)1. As used in this paragraph, the term “security or firesafety system plan” includes all: a. Records, information, photographs, audio and visual presentations, schematic diagrams, surveys, recommendations, or consultations or portions thereof relating directly to the physical security or firesafety of the facility or revealing security or firesafety systems; b. Threat assessments conducted by any agency or any private entity; c. Threat response plans; d. Emergency evacuation plans; e. Sheltering arrangements; or f. Manuals for security or firesafety personnel, emergency equipment, or security or firesafety training. 2. A security or firesafety system plan or portion thereof for: a. Any property owned by or leased to the state or any of its political subdivisions; or b. Any privately owned or leased property held by an agency is confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. This exemption is remedial in nature, and it is the intent of the Legislature that this exemption apply to security or firesafety system plans held by an agency before, on, or after April 6, 2018. 3. Information made confidential and exempt by this paragraph may be disclosed: a. To the property owner or leaseholder; b. In furtherance of the official duties and responsibilities of the agency holding the information; c. To another local, state, or federal agency in furtherance of that agency’s official duties and responsibilities; or d. Upon a showing of good cause before a court of competent jurisdiction. (b)1. Building plans, blueprints, schematic drawings, and diagrams, including draft, preliminary, and final formats, which depict the internal layout and structural elements of a building, arena, stadium, water treatment facility, or other structure owned or operated by an agency are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. 2. This exemption applies to building plans, blueprints, schematic drawings, and diagrams, including draft, preliminary, and final formats, which depict the internal layout and structural elements of a building, arena, stadium, water treatment facility, or other structure owned or operated by an agency before, on, or after the effective date of this act. 3. Information made exempt by this paragraph may be disclosed: a. To another governmental entity if disclosure is necessary for the receiving entity to perform its duties and responsibilities; b. To a licensed architect, engineer, or contractor who is performing work on or related to the building, arena, stadium, water treatment facility, or other structure owned or operated by an agency; or c. Upon a showing of good cause before a court of competent jurisdiction. 4. The entities or persons receiving such information shall maintain the exempt status of the information. (c)1. Building plans, blueprints, schematic drawings, and diagrams, including draft, preliminary, and final formats, which depict the internal layout or structural elements of an attractions and recreation facility, entertainment or resort complex, industrial complex, retail and service development, office development, health care facility, or hotel or motel development, which records are held by an agency are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. 2. This exemption applies to any such records held by an agency before, on, or after the effective date of this act. 3. This paragraph does not apply to comprehensive plans or site plans, or amendments thereto, which are submitted for approval or which have been approved under local land development regulations, local zoning regulations, or development-of-regional-impact review. 4. As used in this paragraph, the term: a. “Attractions and recreation facility” means any sports, entertainment, amusement, or recreation facility, including, but not limited to, a sports arena, stadium, racetrack, tourist attraction, amusement park, or pari-mutuel facility that: (I) For single-performance facilities: (A) Provides single-performance facilities; or (B) Provides more than 10,000 permanent seats for spectators. (II) For serial-performance facilities: (A) Provides parking spaces for more than 1,000 motor vehicles; or (B) Provides more than 4,000 permanent seats for spectators. b. “Entertainment or resort complex” means a theme park comprised of at least 25 acres of land with permanent exhibitions and a variety of recreational activities, which has at least 1 million visitors annually who pay admission fees thereto, together with any lodging, dining, and recreational facilities located adjacent to, contiguous to, or in close proximity to the theme park, as long as the owners or operators of the theme park, or a parent or related company or subsidiary thereof, has an equity interest in the lodging, dining, or recreational facilities or is in privity therewith. Close proximity includes an area within a 5-mile radius of the theme park complex. c. “Industrial complex” means any industrial, manufacturing, processing, distribution, warehousing, or wholesale facility or plant, as well as accessory uses and structures, under common ownership that: (I) Provides onsite parking for more than 250 motor vehicles; (II) Encompasses 500,000 square feet or more of gross floor area; or (III) Occupies a site of 100 acres or more, but excluding wholesale facilities or plants that primarily serve or deal onsite with the general public. d. “Retail and service development” means any retail, service, or wholesale business establishment or group of establishments which deals primarily with the general public onsite and is operated under one common property ownership, development plan, or management that: (I) Encompasses more than 400,000 square feet of gross floor area; or (II) Provides parking spaces for more than 2,500 motor vehicles. e. “Office development” means any office building or park operated under common ownership, development plan, or management that encompasses 300,000 or more square feet of gross floor area. f. “Health care facility” means a hospital, ambulatory surgical center, nursing home, hospice, or intermediate care facility for the developmentally disabled. g. “Hotel or motel development” means any hotel or motel development that accommodates 350 or more units. (d) Information relating to the Nationwide Public Safety Broadband Network established pursuant to 47 U.S.C. ss. 1401 et seq., held by an agency is confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution if release of such information would reveal: 1. The design, development, construction, deployment, and operation of network facilities; 2. Network coverage, including geographical maps indicating actual or proposed locations of network infrastructure or facilities; 3. The features, functions, and capabilities of network infrastructure and facilities; 4. The features, functions, and capabilities of network services provided to first responders, as defined in s. 112.1815 , and other network users; 5. The design, features, functions, and capabilities of network devices provided to first responders and other network users; or 6. Security, including cybersecurity, of the design, construction, and operation of the network and associated services and products. (e)1.a. Building plans, blueprints, schematic drawings, and diagrams, including draft, preliminary, and final formats, which depict the structural elements of 911, E911, NG911, or public safety radio communication system infrastructure, including towers, antennas, equipment or facilities used to provide 911, E911, NG911, or public safety radio communication services, or other 911, E911, NG911, or public safety radio communication structures or facilities owned and operated by an agency are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. b. Geographical maps indicating the actual or proposed locations of 911, E911, NG911, or public safety radio communication system infrastructure, including towers, antennas, equipment or facilities used to provide 911, E911, NG911, or public safety radio services, or other 911, E911, NG911, or public safety radio communication structures or facilities owned and operated by an agency are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. 2. This exemption applies to building plans, blueprints, schematic drawings, and diagrams, including draft, preliminary, and final formats, which depict the structural elements of 911, E911, NG911, or public safety radio communication system infrastructure or other 911, E911, NG911, or public safety radio communication structures or facilities owned and operated by an agency, and geographical maps indicating actual or proposed locations of 911, E911, NG911, or public safety radio communication system infrastructure or other 911, E911, NG911, or public safety radio communication structures or facilities owned and operated by an agency, before, on, or after the effective date of this act. 3. Information made exempt by this paragraph may be disclosed: a. To another governmental entity if disclosure is necessary for the receiving entity to perform its duties and responsibilities; b. To a licensed architect, engineer, or contractor who is performing work on or related to the 911, E911, NG911, or public safety radio communication system infrastructure, including towers, antennas, equipment or facilities used to provide 911, E911, NG911, or public safety radio communication services, or other 911, E911, NG911, or public safety radio communication structures or facilities owned and operated by an agency; or c. Upon a showing of good cause before a court of competent jurisdiction. 4. The entities or persons receiving such information must maintain the exempt status of the information. 5. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “public safety radio” is defined as the means of communication between and among 911 public safety answering points, dispatchers, and first responder agencies using those portions of the radio frequency spectrum designated by the Federal Communications Commission under 47 C.F.R. part 90 for public safety purposes. 6. This paragraph is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2030, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature. (4) AGENCY PERSONNEL INFORMATION. — (a)1. The social security numbers of all current and former agency employees which are held by the employing agency are confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. 2. The social security numbers of current and former agency employees may be disclosed by the employing agency: a. If disclosure of the social security number is expressly required by federal or state law or a court order. b. To another agency or governmental entity if disclosure of the social security number is necessary for the receiving agency or entity to perform its duties and responsibilities. c. If the current or former agency employee expressly consents in writing to the disclosure of his or her social security number. (b)1. Medical information pertaining to a prospective, current, or former officer or employee of an agency which, if disclosed, would identify that officer or employee is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. However, such information may be disclosed if the person to whom the information pertains or the person’s legal representative provides written permission or pursuant to court order. 2.a. Personal identifying information of a dependent child of a current or former officer or employee of an agency, which dependent child is insured by an agency group insurance plan, is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. For purposes of this exemption, “dependent child” has the same meaning as in s. 409.2554 . b. This exemption is remedial in nature and applies to such personal identifying information held by an agency before, on, or after the effective date of this exemption. (c) Any information revealing undercover personnel of any criminal justice agency is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. (d)1. For purposes of this paragraph, the term: a. “Home addresses” means the dwelling location at which an individual resides and includes the physical address, mailing address, street address, parcel identification number, plot identification number, legal property description, neighborhood name and lot number, GPS coordinates, and any other descriptive property information that may reveal the home address. b. “Judicial assistant” means a court employee assigned to the following class codes: 8140, 8150, 8310, and 8320. c. “Telephone numbers” includes home telephone numbers, personal cellular telephone numbers, personal pager telephone numbers, and telephone numbers associated with personal communications devices. 2.a. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of active or former sworn law enforcement personnel or of active or former civilian personnel employed by a law enforcement agency, including correctional and correctional probation officers, personnel of the Department of Children and Families whose duties include the investigation of abuse, neglect, exploitation, fraud, theft, or other criminal activities, personnel of the Department of Health whose duties are to support the investigation of child abuse or neglect, and personnel of the Department of Revenue or local governments whose responsibilities include revenue collection and enforcement or child support enforcement; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, photographs, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of such personnel; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such personnel are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. b. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former nonsworn investigative personnel of the Department of Financial Services whose duties include the investigation of fraud, theft, workers’ compensation coverage requirements and compliance, other related criminal activities, or state regulatory requirement violations; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of such personnel; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such personnel are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. c. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former nonsworn investigative personnel of the Office of Financial Regulation’s Bureau of Financial Investigations whose duties include the investigation of fraud, theft, other related criminal activities, or state regulatory requirement violations; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of such personnel; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such personnel are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. d. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former firefighters certified in compliance with s. 633.408 ; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, photographs, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of such firefighters; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such firefighters are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. e. The home addresses, dates of birth, and telephone numbers of current or former justices of the Supreme Court, district court of appeal judges, circuit court judges, and county court judges and current judicial assistants; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of current or former justices and judges and current judicial assistants; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of current or former justices and judges and of current judicial assistants are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. This sub-subparagraph is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2028, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature. f. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former state attorneys, assistant state attorneys, statewide prosecutors, or assistant statewide prosecutors; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, photographs, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of current or former state attorneys, assistant state attorneys, statewide prosecutors, or assistant statewide prosecutors; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of current or former state attorneys, assistant state attorneys, statewide prosecutors, or assistant statewide prosecutors are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. g. The home addresses, dates of birth, and telephone numbers of general magistrates, special magistrates, judges of compensation claims, administrative law judges of the Division of Administrative Hearings, and child support enforcement hearing officers; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of general magistrates, special magistrates, judges of compensation claims, administrative law judges of the Division of Administrative Hearings, and child support enforcement hearing officers; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of general magistrates, special magistrates, judges of compensation claims, administrative law judges of the Division of Administrative Hearings, and child support enforcement hearing officers are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. h. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former human resource, labor relations, or employee relations directors, assistant directors, managers, or assistant managers of any local government agency or water management district whose duties include hiring and firing employees, labor contract negotiation, administration, or other personnel-related duties; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of such personnel; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such personnel are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. i. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former code enforcement officers; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of such personnel; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such personnel are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. j. The home addresses, telephone numbers, places of employment, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former guardians ad litem, as defined in s. 39.01 ; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of such persons; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such persons are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. k. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former juvenile probation officers, juvenile probation supervisors, detention superintendents, assistant detention superintendents, juvenile justice detention officers I and II, juvenile justice detention officer supervisors, juvenile justice residential officers, juvenile justice residential officer supervisors I and II, juvenile justice counselors, juvenile justice counselor supervisors, human services counselor administrators, senior human services counselor administrators, rehabilitation therapists, and social services counselors of the Department of Juvenile Justice; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and places of employment of spouses and children of such personnel; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such personnel are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. l. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former public defenders, assistant public defenders, criminal conflict and civil regional counsel, and assistant criminal conflict and civil regional counsel; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of current or former public defenders, assistant public defenders, criminal conflict and civil regional counsel, and assistant criminal conflict and civil regional counsel; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of current or former public defenders, assistant public defenders, criminal conflict and civil regional counsel, and assistant criminal conflict and civil regional counsel are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. m. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former investigators or inspectors of the Department of Business and Professional Regulation; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of such current or former investigators and inspectors; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such current or former investigators and inspectors are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. n. The home addresses, telephone numbers, and dates of birth of county tax collectors; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of such tax collectors; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such tax collectors are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. o. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former personnel of the Department of Health whose duties include, or result in, the determination or adjudication of eligibility for social security disability benefits, the investigation or prosecution of complaints filed against health care practitioners, or the inspection of health care practitioners or health care facilities licensed by the Department of Health; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of such personnel; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such personnel are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. p. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former impaired practitioner consultants who are retained by an agency or current or former employees of an impaired practitioner consultant whose duties result in a determination of a person’s skill and safety to practice a licensed profession; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of such consultants or their employees; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such consultants or employees are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. q. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former emergency medical technicians or paramedics certified under chapter 401; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of such emergency medical technicians or paramedics; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such emergency medical technicians or paramedics are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. r. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former personnel employed in an agency’s office of inspector general or internal audit department whose duties include auditing or investigating waste, fraud, abuse, theft, exploitation, or other activities that could lead to criminal prosecution or administrative discipline; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and places of employment of spouses and children of such personnel; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such personnel are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. s. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former directors, managers, supervisors, nurses, and clinical employees of an addiction treatment facility; the home addresses, telephone numbers, photographs, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of such personnel; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such personnel are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. For purposes of this sub-subparagraph, the term “addiction treatment facility” means a county government, or agency thereof, that is licensed pursuant to s. 397.401 and provides substance abuse prevention, intervention, or clinical treatment, including any licensed service component described in s. 397.311 (27). t. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former directors, managers, supervisors, and clinical employees of a child advocacy center that meets the standards of s. 39.3035 (2) and fulfills the screening requirement of s. 39.3035 (3), and the members of a Child Protection Team as described in s. 39.303 whose duties include supporting the investigation of child abuse or sexual abuse, child abandonment, child neglect, and child exploitation or to provide services as part of a multidisciplinary case review team; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, photographs, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of such personnel and members; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such personnel and members are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. u. The home addresses, telephone numbers, places of employment, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former staff and domestic violence advocates, as defined in s. 90.5036 (1)(b), of domestic violence centers certified by the Department of Children and Families under chapter 39; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, places of employment, dates of birth, and photographs of the spouses and children of such personnel; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such personnel are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. v. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former inspectors or investigators of the Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of current or former inspectors or investigators; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of current or former inspectors or investigators are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. This sub-subparagraph is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2028, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature. w. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current county attorneys, assistant county attorneys, deputy county attorneys, city attorneys, assistant city attorneys, and deputy city attorneys; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, photographs, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of current county attorneys, assistant county attorneys, deputy county attorneys, city attorneys, assistant city attorneys, and deputy city attorneys; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of current county attorneys, assistant county attorneys, deputy county attorneys, city attorneys, assistant city attorneys, and deputy city attorneys are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. This exemption does not apply to a county attorney, assistant county attorney, deputy county attorney, city attorney, assistant city attorney, or deputy city attorney who qualifies as a candidate for election to public office. This sub-subparagraph is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2029, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature. x. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current or former commissioners of the Florida Gaming Control Commission; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, photographs, and places of employment of the spouses and children of such current or former commissioners; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of such current or former commissioners are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. This sub-subparagraph is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2029, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature. y. The home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and photographs of current clerks of the circuit court, deputy clerks of the circuit court, and clerk of the circuit court personnel; the names, home addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and places of employment of the spouses and children of current clerks of the circuit court, deputy clerks of the circuit court, and clerk of the circuit court personnel; and the names and locations of schools and day care facilities attended by the children of current clerks of the circuit court, deputy clerks of the circuit court, and clerk of the circuit court personnel are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. This sub-subparagraph is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2029, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature. z.(I) As used in this sub-subparagraph, the term: (A) “Congressional member” means a person who is elected to serve as a member of the United States House of Representatives or is elected or appointed to serve as a member of the United States Senate. (B) “Partial home address” means the dwelling location at which an individual resides and includes the physical address, mailing address, street address, parcel identification number, plot identification number, legal property description, neighborhood name and lot number, GPS coordinates, and any other descriptive property information that may reveal the partial home address, except for the city and zip code. (C) “Public officer” means a person who holds one of the following offices: Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Chief Financial Officer, Attorney General, Agriculture Commissioner, state representative, state senator, property appraiser, supervisor of elections, school superintendent, school board member, mayor, city commissioner, or county commissioner. (II) The following information is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution: (A) The partial home addresses of a current congressional member or public officer and his or her spouse or adult child. (B) The telephone numbers of a current congressional member or public officer and his or her spouse or adult child. (C) The name, home addresses, telephone numbers, and date of birth of a minor child of a current congressional member or public officer and the name and location of the school or day care facility attended by the minor child. (III) This sub-subparagraph is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2030, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature. 3.a. An agency that is the custodian of the information specified in subparagraph 2. and that is not the employer of the officer, employee, justice, judge, or other person specified in subparagraph 2. must maintain the exempt status of that information only if the officer, employee, justice, judge, other person, or employing agency of the designated employee submits a written and notarized request for maintenance of the exemption to the custodial agency. The request must state under oath the statutory basis for the individual’s exemption request and confirm the individual’s status as a party eligible for exempt status. b. An agency that is the custodian of information specified in sub-subparagraph 2.z. and that is not the employer of the congressional member, public officer, or other person specified in sub-subparagraph 2.z. must maintain the exempt status of that information only if an individual requests the maintenance of an exemption pursuant to sub-subparagraph 2.z. on the basis of eligibility as a current congressional member or public officer and his or her spouse or child submits, as part of the written and notarized request required by sub-subparagraph a., the date of the congressional member’s or public officer’s election or appointment to public office, the date on which that office is next subject to election, and, if applicable, the date on which the current congressional member’s or public officer’s minor child reaches the age of majority. The custodian must maintain an exemption granted pursuant to sub-subparagraph 2.z. until the qualifying conditions for the exemption no longer apply to the person subject to the exemption. 4.a. A county property appraiser, as defined in s. 192.001 (3), or a county tax collector, as defined in s. 192.001 (4), who receives a written and notarized request for maintenance of the exemption pursuant to subparagraph 3. must comply by removing the name of the individual with exempt status and the instrument number or Official Records book and page number identifying the property with the exempt status from all publicly available records maintained by the property appraiser or tax collector. For written requests received on or before July 1, 2021, a county property appraiser or county tax collector must comply with this sub-subparagraph by October 1, 2021. A county property appraiser or county tax collector may not remove the street address, legal description, or other information identifying real property within the agency’s records so long as a name or personal information otherwise exempt from inspection and copying pursuant to this section is not associated with the property or otherwise displayed in the public records of the agency. b. Any information restricted from public display, inspection, or copying under sub-subparagraph a. must be provided to the individual whose information was removed. 5. An officer, an employee, a justice, a judge, or other person specified in subparagraph 2. may submit a written request for the release of his or her exempt information to the custodial agency. The written request must be notarized and must specify the information to be released and the party authorized to receive the information. Upon receipt of the written request, the custodial agency must release the specified information to the party authorized to receive such information. 6. The exemptions in this paragraph apply to information held by an agency before, on, or after the effective date of the exemption. 7. Information made exempt under this paragraph may be disclosed pursuant to s. 28.2221 to a title insurer authorized pursuant to s. 624.401 and its affiliates as defined in s. 624.10 ; a title insurance agent or title insurance agency as defined in s. 626.841 (1) or (2), respectively; or an attorney duly admitted to practice law in this state and in good standing with The Florida Bar. 8. The exempt status of a home address contained in the Official Records is maintained only during the period when a protected party resides at the dwelling location. Upon conveyance of real property after October 1, 2021, and when such real property no longer constitutes a protected party’s home address as defined in sub-subparagraph 1.a., the protected party must submit a written request to release the removed information to the county recorder. The written request to release the removed information must be notarized, must confirm that a protected party’s request for release is pursuant to a conveyance of his or her dwelling location, and must specify the Official Records book and page, instrument number, or clerk’s file number for each document containing the information to be released. 9. Upon the death of a protected party as verified by a certified copy of a death certificate or court order, any party can request the county recorder to release a protected decedent’s removed information unless there is a related request on file with the county recorder for continued removal of the decedent’s information or unless such removal is otherwise prohibited by statute or by court order. The written request to release the removed information upon the death of a protected party must attach the certified copy of a death certificate or court order and must be notarized, must confirm the request for release is due to the death of a protected party, and must specify the Official Records book and page number, instrument number, or clerk’s file number for each document containing the information to be released. A fee may not be charged for the release of any document pursuant to such request. (e)1. As used in this paragraph, the term “law enforcement geolocation information” means information collected using a global positioning system or another mapping, locational, or directional information system that allows tracking of the location or movement of a law enforcement officer or a law enforcement vehicle. 2. Law enforcement geolocation information held by a law enforcement agency is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. This exemption applies to such information held by an agency before, on, or after the effective date of the exemption. This exemption does not apply to uniform traffic citations, crash reports, homicide reports, arrest reports, incident reports, or any other official reports issued by an agency which contain law enforcement geolocation information. 3. A law enforcement agency shall disclose law enforcement geolocation information in the following instances: a. Upon a request from a state or federal law enforcement agency; b. When a person files a petition with the circuit court in the jurisdiction where the agency having custody of the requested law enforcement geolocation information is located specifying the reasons for requesting such information and the court, upon a showing of good cause, issues an order authorizing the release of the law enforcement geolocation information. In all cases in which the court releases law enforcement geolocation information under this sub-subparagraph, such information must be viewed or copied under the direct supervision of the custodian of the record or his or her designee; or c. When law enforcement geolocation information is requested for use in a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding. This sub-subparagraph does not prohibit a court in such a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, upon a showing of good cause, from restricting or otherwise controlling the disclosure of such information. 4. This paragraph is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2027, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature. (5) OTHER PERSONAL INFORMATION. — (a)1.a. The Legislature acknowledges that the social security number was never intended to be used for business purposes but was intended to be used solely for the administration of the federal Social Security System. The Legislature is further aware that over time this unique numeric identifier has been used extensively for identity verification purposes and other legitimate consensual purposes. b. The Legislature recognizes that the social security number can be used as a tool to perpetuate fraud against an individual and to acquire sensitive personal, financial, medical, and familial information, the release of which could cause great financial or personal harm to an individual. c. The Legislature intends to monitor the use of social security numbers held by agencies in order to maintain a balanced public policy. 2.a. An agency may not collect an individual’s social security number unless the agency has stated in writing the purpose for its collection and unless it is: (I) Specifically authorized by law to do so; or (II) Imperative for the performance of that agency’s duties and responsibilities as prescribed by law. b. An agency shall identify in writing the specific federal or state law governing the collection, use, or release of social security numbers for each purpose for which the agency collects the social security number, including any authorized exceptions that apply to such collection, use, or release. Each agency shall ensure that the collection, use, or release of social security numbers complies with the specific applicable federal or state law. c. Social security numbers collected by an agency may not be used by that agency for any purpose other than the purpose provided in the written statement. 3. An agency collecting an individual’s social security number shall provide that individual with a copy of the written statement required in subparagraph 2. The written statement also shall state whether collection of the individual’s social security number is authorized or mandatory under federal or state law. 4. Each agency shall review whether its collection of social security numbers is in compliance with subparagraph 2. If the agency determines that collection of a social security number is not in compliance with subparagraph 2., the agency shall immediately discontinue the collection of social security numbers for that purpose. 5. Social security numbers held by an agency are confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. This exemption applies to social security numbers held by an agency before, on, or after the effective date of this exemption. This exemption does not supersede any federal law prohibiting the release of social security numbers or any other applicable public records exemption for social security numbers existing prior to May 13, 2002, or created thereafter. 6. Social security numbers held by an agency may be disclosed if any of the following apply: a. The disclosure of the social security number is expressly required by federal or state law or a court order. b. The disclosure of the social security number is necessary for the receiving agency or governmental entity to perform its duties and responsibilities. c. The individual expressly consents in writing to the disclosure of his or her social security number. d. The disclosure of the social security number is made to comply with the USA Patriot Act of 2001, Pub. L. No. 107-56, or Presidential Executive Order 13224. e. The disclosure of the social security number is made to a commercial entity for the permissible uses set forth in the federal Driver’s Privacy Protection Act of 1994, 18 U.S.C. ss. 2721 et seq.; the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. ss. 1681 et seq.; or the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, 15 U.S.C. ss. 6801 et seq., provided that the authorized commercial entity complies with the requirements of this paragraph. f. The disclosure of the social security number is for the purpose of the administration of health benefits for an agency employee or his or her dependents. g. The disclosure of the social security number is for the purpose of the administration of a pension fund administered for the agency employee’s retirement fund, deferred compensation plan, or defined contribution plan. h. The disclosure of the social security number is for the purpose of the administration of the Uniform Commercial Code by the office of the Secretary of State. 7.a. For purposes of this subsection, the term: (I) “Commercial activity” means the permissible uses set forth in the federal Driver’s Privacy Protection Act of 1994, 18 U.S.C. ss. 2721 et seq.; the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. ss. 1681 et seq.; or the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, 15 U.S.C. ss. 6801 et seq., or verification of the accuracy of personal information received by a commercial entity in the normal course of its business, including identification or prevention of fraud or matching, verifying, or retrieving information. It does not include the display or bulk sale of social security numbers to the public or the distribution of such numbers to any customer that is not identifiable by the commercial entity. (II) “Commercial entity” means any corporation, partnership, limited partnership, proprietorship, sole proprietorship, firm, enterprise, franchise, or association that performs a commercial activity in this state. b. An agency may not deny a commercial entity engaged in the performance of a commercial activity access to social security numbers, provided the social security numbers will be used only in the performance of a commercial activity and provided the commercial entity makes a written request for the social security numbers. The written request must: (I) Be verified as provided in s. 92.525 ; (II) Be legibly signed by an authorized officer, employee, or agent of the commercial entity; (III) Contain the commercial entity’s name, business mailing and location addresses, and business telephone number; and (IV) Contain a statement of the specific purposes for which it needs the social security numbers and how the social security numbers will be used in the performance of a commercial activity, including the identification of any specific federal or state law that permits such use. c. An agency may request any other information reasonably necessary to verify the identity of a commercial entity requesting the social security numbers and the specific purposes for which the numbers will be used. 8.a. Any person who makes a false representation in order to obtain a social security number pursuant to this paragraph, or any person who willfully and knowingly violates this paragraph, commits a felony of the third degree, punishable as provided in s. 775.082 or s. 775.083 . b. Any public officer who violates this paragraph commits a noncriminal infraction, punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 per violation. 9. Any affected person may petition the circuit court for an order directing compliance with this paragraph. (b) Bank account numbers and debit, charge, and credit card numbers held by an agency are exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. This exemption applies to bank account numbers and debit, charge, and credit card numbers held by an agency before, on, or after the effective date of this exemption. (c)1. For purposes of this paragraph, the term: a. “Child” means any person younger than 18 years of age. b. “Government-sponsored recreation program” means a program for which an agency assumes responsibility for a child participating in that program, including, but not limited to, after-school programs, athletic programs, nature programs, summer camps, or other recreational programs. 2. Information that would identify or locate a child who participates in a government-sponsored recreation program is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. 3. Information that would identify or locate a parent or guardian of a child who participates in a government-sponsored recreation program is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. 4. This exemption applies to records held before, on, or after the effective date of this exemption. (d) All records supplied by a telecommunications company, as defined by s. 364.02 , to an agency which contain the name, address, and telephone number of subscribers are confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. (e) Any information provided to an agency for the purpose of forming ridesharing arrangements, which information reveals the identity of an individual who has provided his or her name for ridesharing, as defined in s. 341.031 , is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. (f)1. The following information held by the Department of Commerce, the Florida Housing Finance Corporation, a county, a municipality, or a local housing finance agency is confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution: a. Medical history records and information related to health or property insurance provided by an applicant for or a participant in a federal, state, or local housing assistance program. b. Property photographs and personal identifying information of an applicant for or a participant in a federal, state, or local housing assistance program for the purpose of disaster recovery assistance for a presidentially declared disaster. 2. Governmental entities or their agents shall have access to such confidential and exempt records and information for the purpose of auditing federal, state, or local housing programs or housing assistance programs. 3. Such confidential and exempt records and information may be used in any administrative or judicial proceeding, provided such records are kept confidential and exempt unless otherwise ordered by a court. (g) Biometric identification information held by an agency before, on, or after the effective date of this exemption is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. As used in this paragraph, the term “biometric identification information” means: 1. Any record of friction ridge detail; 2. Fingerprints; 3. Palm prints; and 4. Footprints. (h)1. Personal identifying information of an applicant for or a recipient of paratransit services which is held by an agency is confidential and exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. 2. This exemption applies to personal identifying information of an applicant for or a recipient of paratransit services which is held by an agency before, on, or after the effective date of this exemption. 3. Confidential and exempt personal identifying information shall be disclosed: a. With the express written consent of the applicant or recipient or the legally authorized representative of such applicant or recipient; b. In a medical emergency, but only to the extent that is necessary to protect the health or life of the applicant or recipient; c. By court order upon a showing of good cause; or d. To another agency in the performance of its duties and responsibilities. (i)1. For purposes of this paragraph, “identification and location information” means the: a. Home address, telephone number, and photograph of a current or former United States attorney, assistant United States attorney, judge of the United States Courts of Appeal, United States district judge, or United States magistrate; b. Home address, telephone number, photograph, and place of employment of the spouse or child of such attorney, judge, or magistrate; and c. Name and location of the school or day care facility attended by the child of such attorney, judge, or magistrate. 2. Identification and location information held by an agency is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution if such attorney, judge, or magistrate submits to an agency that has custody of the identification and location information: a. A written request to exempt such information from public disclosure; and b. A written statement that he or she has made reasonable efforts to protect the identification and location information from being accessible through other means available to the public. (j) Any information furnished by a person to an agency for the purpose of being provided with emergency notification by the agency is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. This exemption applies to information held by an agency before, on, or after the effective date of this exemption. (k)1. For purposes of this paragraph, the term: a. “Identification and location information” means the: (I) Home addresses, telephone numbers, and dates of birth of current and former military personnel, and the telephone numbers associated with the personal communication devices of current and former military personnel. (II) Home addresses, telephone numbers, and dates of birth of the spouses and dependents of current and former military personnel, and the telephone numbers associated with the personal communication devices of such spouses and dependents. (III) Names and locations of schools attended by the spouses of current and former military personnel and schools or day care facilities attended by dependents of current and former military personnel. b. “Military personnel” means persons employed by the United States Department of Defense who are authorized to access information that is deemed “secret” or “top secret” by the Federal Government or who are servicemembers of a special operations force. c. “Special operations force” has the same meaning as provided in s. 943.10 (22). 2. Identification and location information held by an agency is exempt from s. 119.07 (1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution if the current or former military personnel member submits to an agency that has custody of the identification and location information: a. A written request to exempt the identification and location information from public disclosure; and b. A written statement that he or she has made reasonable efforts to protect the identification and location information from being accessible through other means available to the public. 3. This exemption applies to identification and location information held by an agency before, on, or after the effective date of this exemption. 4. This paragraph is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2029, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature. History. — s. 4, ch. 75-225; ss. 2, 3, 4, 6, ch. 79-187; s. 1, ch. 82-95; s. 1, ch. 83-286; s. 5, ch. 84-298; s. 1, ch. 85-18; s. 1, ch. 85-45; s. 1, ch. 85-86; s. 4, ch. 85-301; s. 2, ch. 86-11; s. 1, ch. 86-21; s. 1, ch. 86-109; s. 2, ch. 88-188; s. 1, ch. 88-384; s. 1, ch. 89-80; s. 63, ch. 90-136; s. 4, ch. 90-211; s. 78, ch. 91-45; s. 1, ch. 91-96; s. 1, ch. 91-149; s. 90, ch. 92-152; s. 1, ch. 93-87; s. 2, ch. 93-232; s. 3, ch. 93-404; s. 4, ch. 93-405; s. 1, ch. 94-128; s. 3, ch. 94-130; s. 1, ch. 94-176; s. 1419, ch. 95-147; ss. 1, 3, ch. 95-170; s. 4, ch. 95-207; s. 1, ch. 95-320; ss. 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 18, 20, 25, 29, 31, 32, 33, 34, ch. 95-398; s. 3, ch. 96-178; s. 41, ch. 96-406; s. 18, ch. 96-410; s. 1, ch. 98-9; s. 7, ch. 98-137; s. 1, ch. 98-259; s. 2, ch. 99-201; s. 27, ch. 2000-164; s. 1, ch. 2001-249; s. 29, ch. 2001-261; s. 1, ch. 2001-361; s. 1, ch. 2001-364; s. 1, ch. 2002-67; ss. 1, 3, ch. 2002-256; s. 1, ch. 2002-257; ss. 2, 3, ch. 2002-391; s. 11, ch. 2003-1; s. 1, ch. 2003-16; s. 1, ch. 2003-100; s. 1, ch. 2003-137; ss. 1, 2, ch. 2003-157; ss. 1, 2, ch. 2004-9; ss. 1, 2, ch. 2004-32; ss. 1, 3, ch. 2004-95; s. 7, ch. 2004-335; s. 4, ch. 2005-213; s. 41, ch. 2005-236; ss. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, ch. 2005-251; s. 14, ch. 2006-1; s. 1, ch. 2006-158; s. 1, ch. 2006-180; s. 1, ch. 2006-181; s. 1, ch. 2006-211; s. 1, ch. 2006-212; s. 13, ch. 2006-224; s. 1, ch. 2006-284; s. 1, ch. 2006-285; s. 1, ch. 2007-93; s. 1, ch. 2007-95; s. 1, ch. 2007-250; s. 1, ch. 2007-251; s. 1, ch. 2008-41; s. 2, ch. 2008-57; s. 1, ch. 2008-145; ss. 1, 3, ch. 2008-234; s. 1, ch. 2009-104; ss. 1, 2, ch. 2009-150; s. 1, ch. 2009-169; ss. 1, 2, ch. 2009-235; s. 1, ch. 2009-237; s. 1, ch. 2010-71; s. 1, ch. 2010-171; s. 1, ch. 2011-83; s. 1, ch. 2011-85; s. 1, ch. 2011-115; s. 1, ch. 2011-140; s. 48, ch. 2011-142; s. 1, ch. 2011-201; s. 1, ch. 2011-202; s. 1, ch. 2012-149; s. 1, ch. 2012-214; s. 1, ch. 2012-216; s. 1, ch. 2013-69; s. 119, ch. 2013-183; s. 1, ch. 2013-220; s. 1, ch. 2013-243; s. 1, ch. 2013-248; s. 1, ch. 2014-72; s. 1, ch. 2014-94; s. 1, ch. 2014-105; s. 1, ch. 2014-172; s. 1, ch. 2015-37; s. 1, ch. 2015-41; s. 1, ch. 2015-86; s. 1, ch. 2015-146; s. 1, ch. 2016-6; s. 1, ch. 2016-27; s. 1, ch. 2016-49; s. 1, ch. 2016-159; s. 1, ch. 2016-164; s. 1, ch. 2016-178; s. 1, ch. 2016-214; s. 2, ch. 2017-11; s. 1, ch. 2017-53; s. 1, ch. 2017-66; s. 1, ch. 2017-96; s. 1, ch. 2017-103; s. 1, ch. 2018-2; s. 1, ch. 2018-53; s. 1, ch. 2018-60; s. 1, ch. 2018-64; s. 1, ch. 2018-77; s. 8, ch. 2018-110; s. 1, ch. 2018-117; s. 1, ch. 2018-146; s. 1, ch. 2018-147; s. 26, ch. 2019-3; s. 1, ch. 2019-12; s. 1, ch. 2019-28; ss. 1, 3, ch. 2019-46; s. 1, ch. 2020-13; s. 1, ch. 2020-34; s. 1, ch. 2020-170; s. 1, ch. 2020-183; s. 1, ch. 2021-48; s. 1, ch. 2021-52; s. 1, ch. 2021-105; s. 30, ch. 2021-170; s. 1, ch. 2021-182; s. 3, ch. 2021-215; s. 1, ch. 2022-88; s. 1, ch. 2022-107; s. 1, ch. 2022-172; s. 1, ch. 2023-44; s. 1, ch. 2023-75; s. 1, ch. 2023-107; s. 1, ch. 2023-119; s. 1, ch. 2023-131; s. 1, ch. 2023-153; s. 1, ch. 2023-177; s. 1, ch. 2023-235; s. 1, ch. 2023-264; s. 3, ch. 2024-3; s. 16, ch. 2024-6; s. 1, ch. 2024-18; s. 1, ch. 2024-56; s. 53, ch. 2024-70; s. 1, ch. 2024-111; s. 5, ch. 2024-176; s. 1, ch. 2024-235; s. 1, ch. 2024-236; s. 1, ch. 2024-239; s. 1, ch. 2024-252; s. 7, ch. 2025-6; s. 1, ch. 2025-26; s. 1, ch. 2025-90; s. 1, ch. 2025-195; s. 1, ch. 2026-32; s. 8, ch. 2026-120; s. 1, ch. 2026-152. 1 Note. — As created by s. 1, ch. 2026-32, sub-sub-subparagraph (2)(j)1.b.(IV) provides that “[t]his sub-subparagraph is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2031, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature. If, after review, this sub-subparagraph is not reenacted, the text of this sub-subparagraph shall revert to that in existence on June 30, 2026, except that any amendments to this sub-subparagraph enacted other than by this act shall be preserved and continue to operate to the extent that such amendments are not dependent upon the amendments to the sub-subparagraph made by this act.” If the public records exemption under this section is not saved from repeal through reenactment, effective October 2, 2031, sub-subparagraph (j)1.b., will read: b. Any document that reveals the identity, home or employment telephone number, home or employment address, or personal assets of the victim of a crime and identifies that person as the victim of a crime, which document is received by any agency that regularly receives information from or concerning the victims of crime, is exempt from s. 119.07(1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution. Note. — A. Additional exemptions from the application of this section appear in the General Index to the Florida Statutes under the heading “Public Records.” B. Portions former ss. 119.07(6), 119.072, and 119.0721; subparagraph (2)(g)1. former s. 119.0711(1); paragraph (2)(p) former s. 406.136. Copyright © 1995-2026 The Florida Legislature • Privacy Statement • Contact Us