We Can Help

Get Connected
BENEFITS AVAILABLE:

CLAIM TYPES AVAILABLE:

The Victim Compensation (VC) program provides
assistance with economic losses incurred such as wage
loss (for victims who missed work as a result of physical
crime injuries, and parents who missed work to bring their
minor child to medical treatment for physical injuries),
disability (if a permanent impairment was suffered), or loss
of support (for applicants of victims who were gainfully
employed at the time of death); treatment costs such as
medical, mental health or grief counseling (not covered by
any other collateral source); and/or funeral/burial costs.
The Domestic Violence (DV), Sexual Battery (RS), and
Human Trafficking (HT) Relocation programs provide
assistance with compensable housing expenses (limited to
short-term interim shelter, rental agreements, or long-term
leases) for victims who have been certified by a domestic
violence or rape crisis center in the State of Florida. The
Property Loss (PL) program provides financial assistance
to adults over the age of 60 or disabled who suffered the
loss of personal tangible property which adversely affects
their daily quality of life. The Sexual Battery Forensic
Examination (SB) program reimburses providers for costs
associated with the collection of forensic evidence
following a sexual battery or lewd or lascivious battery or
molestation. The Emergency Responder Death Benefit (ER)
program offers death benefits to the surviving spouse,
children, parents or guardian, or siblings of a deceased
emergency medical technician, paramedic, firefighter, or
law enforcement officer who is killed answering a call for
service in the line of duty.

Victims are encouraged to speak with a local victim advocate
at their victim services center, law enforcement agency, or
State Attorney’s Office for assistance with applying.
For referrals, information about program qualifications, or
to check the status of a claim, call the Toll-Free Information
and Referral Line.

(800) 226-6667
Hearing impaired users may call through Florida Relay
at (800) 955-8771.

Visit us on the web at
VANext.MyFloridaLegal.com
Email us at VCintake@MyFloridaLegal.com
Victim service practitioners can register for access to the
online claims submission portal at
VANext.MyFloridaLegal.com

Victim Compensation (VC)
Property Loss (PL)
Domestic Violence Relocation (DV)
Sexual Battery Relocation (RS)
Human Trafficking Relocation (HT)
Sexual Battery Forensic Examination (SB)
Emergency Responder Death Benefit (ER)

The Office of the Attorney General, Bureau of Victim
Compensation is an equal opportunity provider and employer.

Hope Begins
With Help.

Who Can Apply
VICTIM MEANS:
A person who suffers personal physical injury or death as a
direct result of a crime.

Qualifications
Crimes must be reported to law enforcement within 120
hours.

A person younger than 18 years of age who was present at
the scene of a crime, saw or heard the crime, and suffered
a psychiatric or psychological injury because of the crime
but who was not physically injured.

Victims must suffer personal physical injury or death
as the result of a crime. Some exceptions and limited
benefits may apply for victims who sustained
psychiatric or psychological injury from certain crimes.

A person younger than 18 years of age who was the victim
of a felony or misdemeanor offense of child abuse that
resulted in a mental injury as defined by s. 827.03, Fla. Stat.,
but who was not physically injured.

Victims must fully cooperate with law enforcement, the
State Attorney’s Office, and the Attorney General’s Office.

A person against whom a forcible felony was committed
and who suffers a psychiatric or psychological injury as a
direct result of that crime but who does not otherwise
sustain a personal physical injury or death.
For the property loss program, a person 60 years of age or
older, or disabled adult.
For relocation programs, a person against whom domestic
violence as defined by s. 741.28, Fla. Stat., sexual battery s. 794.011,
or human trafficking s. 787.06(3)(b), (d), (f), or (g), was committed.

Victims must not have been engaged in an unlawful
activity at the time of the crime.
Victims’ conduct must not have contributed to the
situation that brought about his or her own injuries.
Victims/applicants must not have been confined or in
custody in a county or municipal facility; a state or
federal correctional facility; or a juvenile detention,
commitment, or assessment facility; adjudicated as a
habitual felony offender, habitual violent offender, violent
career criminal; or adjudicated guilty of a forcible felony
offense.

Documentation Needed
Applications must be received by department within
three years after the crime date or within five years if
good cause is shown for the filing delay.
Relocation claims for victims of domestic violence who
have an immediate need to escape a domestic violence
environment must be filed through and certified by a
domestic violence center in the State of Florida. The
certification must be received by the department within
30 days from the date of crime.
Relocation claims for victims of sexual battery who need
to relocate due to a reasonable fear for their continued
safety must be filed through and certified by a rape crisis
center in the State of Florida.
Relocation claims for victims of sexual human trafficking
who have an urgent need to escape from an unsafe
environment must be filed through and certified by a
domestic violence or rape crisis center in the State of
Florida. The certification must be received by the
department within 45 days from the last identifiable
threat from the human trafficking offender which was
communicated to law enforcement.
(Additional qualifications, deadlines and exceptions not listed may apply.)

A completed, signed and dated application.
Documentation which proves a compensable crime occurred.
Acceptable documentation includes: a law enforcement report,
affidavit charging an individual with a crime filed by law
enforcement, information report charging an individual with a
crime filed by a state attorney, indictment by a grand jury, written
communication from any Federal Law Enforcement agency, a
cybercrime investigator certification for purposes of s. 960.197,
Fla. Stat., or a Law Enforcement Information Reporting Form.
Proof of crime related expenses, such as itemized bills, if
applicable. Itemized bills should be prepared using industry
standard forms or on the provider’s letterhead, and must
include the following information: service provider/facility’s
name, street address, city, state and zip code, email address,
and telephone number and federal tax identification number;
beginning and ending date(s) of service; name and address of
individual being billed for services rendered; revenue code,
description of service, CPT or equivalent code, service date,
service units, and total charges; diagnostic code, diagnosis, or
nature of injury; and first and last name of attending medical
professional and license number.
Proof of third-party payments such as insurance, restitution,
judgments or settlements (e.g., copy of insurance
explanation of benefits, settlement agreements, court
documents for restitution and judgments), if applicable.
Wage loss, disability, and loss of support benefits require
additional documentation from the victim’s employer and
treating physician, if applicable.

CRIME MEANS:
A felony or misdemeanor offense which results in physical injury
or death, a forcible felony which directly results in psychiatric or
psychological injury, or an offense of child abuse which results
in a mental injury to a person younger than 18 years of age.
Vehicle, boat, and aircraft violations of s. 316.027(2), s. 316.193, s.
316.1935, s. 327.35(1), s. 782.071(1)(b), or s. 860.13(1)(a), Fla. Stat.,
which results in physical injury or death; or when the act was
intentionally inflicted using a vehicle, boat, or aircraft as a weapon.
Violations of s. 827.071, s. 847.0135, s. 847.0137, or s. 847.0138, Fla.
Stat., related to online sexual exploitation and child pornography.

Relocation benefits require certification documentation from
a certified domestic violence or rape crisis center
(depending on the claim type selected) in the State of Florida.
When claims are received, victims/applicants may be asked to
provide specific medical and financial information. All
supplemental documents are verified telephonically with the
originating source.

