Statutes & Constitution 
      :View Statutes 
    :
  
  Online Sunshine Skip to Menu | Skip to Main Content Home Senate House Citator Statutes, Constitution, & Laws of Florida Florida Statutes Search & Browse Download Search Statutes Search Tips Florida Constitution Laws of Florida Legislative & Executive Branch Lobbyists Information Center Joint Legislative Committees & Other Entities Joint Administrative Procedures Committee (JAPC) Joint Committee on Public Counsel Oversight(JCPO) Joint Legislative Auditing Committee (JLAC) Joint Legislative Budget Commission (JLBC) Joint Select Committee on Collective Bargaining (JSCB) Office of Program Policy Analysis & Government Accountability (OPPAGA) Auditor General Commission on Ethics Economic and Demographic Research (EDR) Florida Historic Capitol Florida Government Efficiency Task Force Legislative Employment Legistore Links The Florida Statutes The 2026 Florida Statutes Title XLVII CRIMINAL PROCEDURE AND CORRECTIONS Chapter 960 VICTIM ASSISTANCE View Entire Chapter F.S. 960.12 960.12 Emergency awards. — Notwithstanding s. 960.07 , if it appears to the department that such claim is one with respect to which an award probably will be made, and that either the claimant is a recipient of benefits under the federal Social Security Act or undue hardship will result to the claimant if immediate payment is not made, the department may make an emergency award to the claimant, pending a final decision in the case, on the following conditions: (1) The amount of such emergency award may not exceed $1,000; (2) The amount of such emergency award shall be deducted from any final award made to the claimant; and (3) The amount of such emergency award which is in excess of the final award, or the full amount of the emergency award if no final award is made, shall be repaid by the claimant to the department. (4) The claimant has not been adjudicated guilty of a forcible felony, as verified through a criminal history records check performed through the Florida Crime Information Center system pursuant to s. 960.045 . History. — s. 1, ch. 77-452; s. 1, ch. 78-44; s. 10, ch. 80-146; s. 7, ch. 91-23; s. 5, ch. 99-373. Copyright © 1995-2026 The Florida Legislature • Privacy Statement • Contact Us