Address Confidentiality Program – Arkansas Department of Finance and Administration Skip to content Driver Services MyDMV Mobile ID Apple Wallet Google Wallet Samsung Wallet Mobile ID for Users Mobile ID for Businesses Apple Mobile Driver's License (mDL) Terms and Conditions Regulatory Letter – Arkansas Mobile ID Driver Examination Licenses, IDs & Permits Real ID Non-Commercial Information (NCL) Motorcycle License Graduated Licenses Age Waiver Information Learner’s and Intermediate License Identification Only Military & Veterans Commercial Drivers License (CDL) Commercial Restrictions New IRP Account Requirements and Documentation Commercial Endorsements Restricted CDL Medical Certification/SPE/Waiver and Exemptions CLP- Commercial Learner’s Permit Hazardous Materials Endorsement Entry Level Driver Training Drug & Alcohol Clearinghouse DUI/DWI Information DUI/DWI Administrative Hearing DUI, DWI, BUI, BWI Offenses DWI/BWI Drugs Refusals CDL/CMV Offenses Underage Offenses Interlock Providers Alcohol Treatment Programs Alcohol Education Directory Victim Impact Panel Driver Improvements Violations and Points Driving Records Arkansas State Vehicle Safety Program D980 Driving Records Program Top Ten Violations Safety Responsibility Legislative Changes for 2021 Driver Services Forms Address Confidentiality Program DSMV FAQs ← View All DFA Offices Address Confidentiality Program Program Description The Address Confidentiality Program is a free program administered by the Office of Driver Services. Participants in tis program will be issued a driver’s license or identification card that displays a post office box in lieu of a residential address. Participants will also have the option of providing a secret word for their driver’s license or identification card account to create a secure way of making future modifications to the participant’s record. The secret word is designed to prevent unauthorized individuals from making changes to the record. Releasing Residential Address The Department shall only disclose the residence address to a person who: Presents a current and valid court order from a court in this state finding a compelling reason for access to the residence address. Presents a valid identification to the department. Is not a person who has been convicted of domestic violence against whom the order of protection has been entered or who is related by blood or marriage to the person agains whom the order of protection has been entered. The Department shall maintain a record of each person the Department discloses the residence address to and will provide written notice to the ACP participant. Eligibility Requirements A license shall qualify for the exception for disclosing a residence address if he or she: Presents a valid order of protection issued under the Domestic Abuse Act of 1991, § 9–15–101 et seq. Presents an affidavit in which the licensee states that he or she: Is a victim of domestic violence, or is the dependent of a victim of domestic violence; or Fears further acts of domestic violence or resides with the victim of domestic violence and fears further acts of domestic violence against his or her parent, custodian or guardian. Agrees to the terms of participation in the program. Provides the department of Finance and Administration his or her residential address, which shall be kept on file for as long as the licensee participates in the ACP. Updates his or her residence and post office box with the department if a change occurs. Helpful Links Address Confidentiality Program Affidavit