Arkansas Code § 27-16-811 (2025) - Exception to disclosing residence address — Address confidentiality program — Definitions :: 2025 Arkansas Code :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Arkansas Code (here) 2024 Arkansas Code 2023 Arkansas Code View All Versions 2025 Arkansas Code Title 27 - Transportation Subtitle 2 - Motor Vehicle Registration and Licensing Chapter 16 - Driver's Licenses Generally Subchapter 8 - Issuance of Licenses and Permits § 27-16-811. Exception to disclosing residence address — Address confidentiality program — Definitions Universal Citation: AR Code § 27-16-811 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next (a) As used in this section: (1) “Domestic violence” means: (A) Physical harm, bodily harm causing injury, or an assault against a person caused by: (i) A family or household member; or (ii) Another person with whom the victim is in a dating relationship; (B) Mental or emotional harm to a person caused by: (i) A family or household member; or (ii) Another person with whom the victim is in a dating relationship; or (C) Sexual abuse caused by: (i) A family or household member; or (ii) Another person with whom the victim is in a dating relationship; and (2) “Licensee” means a person who is applying for, renewing, or requesting a change to his or her driver's license issued or to be issued under this chapter and who is: (A) The victim of domestic violence; or (B) The dependent of a victim of domestic violence. (b) A licensee shall qualify for the exception for disclosing a residence address under this section if he or she: (1) Presents a valid order of protection issued under the Domestic Abuse Act of 1991, § 9-15-101 et seq.; (2) Presents an affidavit in which the licensee states that he or she: (A) Is a victim of domestic violence, or is the dependent of a victim of domestic violence; or (B) Fears further acts of domestic violence, or resides with the victim of domestic violence and fears further acts of domestic violence against his or her parent, custodian, or guardian; and (3) Agrees to the terms of participation in the address confidentiality program. (c) (1) A licensee who participates in the address confidentiality program under this section shall be issued a driver's license that discloses a post office box address in lieu of his or her residence address. (2) (A) The licensee shall provide to the Department of Finance and Administration his or her residence address, which shall be kept on file with the department for as long as the licensee holds a license that displays a post office box in lieu of a residence address. (B) The licensee shall update his or her residence address and post office box address with the department if a change occurs. (3) (A) The department shall only disclose the residence address to a person who: (i) Presents a current and valid court order from a court in this state finding a compelling reason for access to the residence address; (ii) Presents valid identification to the department; and (iii) Is not a person who has been convicted of domestic violence against whom the order of protection has been entered or who is related by blood or marriage to the person against whom the order of protection has been entered. (B) The department shall maintain a record of each and every person to whom the department discloses the residence address. (C) The department shall provide written notice to the licensee that advises him or her of a disclosure to a third party. (D) (i) The department shall accept complaints from the licensee if the licensee objects to the disclosure to a third party. (ii) The department shall refer a complaint to the prosecuting attorney for prosecution for perjury or another offense relating to judicial or other official proceedings under § 5-53-101 et seq. related to a false compelling reason stated in an affidavit under subdivision (c)(3)(A)(i) of this section. (d) The Secretary of the Department of Finance and Administration shall promulgate rules and forms to administer the address confidentiality program under this section. History Acts 2005, No. 1233, § 1; 2019, No. 910, § 4658; 2021, No. 913, §§ 1, 2. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Arkansas may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Sam Bernstein Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 883-9584 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Traffic Tickets, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new Arkansas Supreme Court opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions