Title 16. Practice, Procedure, and Courts
Chapter VIII. Crime Victims Reparations Board, Department of Public Safety
Subchapter A. Generally
Part 60. Crime Victims Reparations Board Rules
Codification Notes. This part as promulgated prior to codification into the Code of
Arkansas Rules provided as follows:
"Rule No. 1.1
Subpart 1. General Provisions
16 CAR § 60-101. Membership and officers of the board.
(a) The Crime Victims Reparations Board shall consist of five (5) members
appointed by the Governor to serve four-year terms and until the successor is
appointed and qualified.
(b) At least two (2) members of the board shall be persons admitted to practice
law in this state.
(c) At least one (1) member of the board shall be:
(1) A victim of criminally injurious conduct;
(2) The next of kin of a homicide victim; or
(3) An individual experienced in providing victim assistance services.
(d) Of the first members appointed:
(1) Two (2) shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years;
(2) Two (2) shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years; and
(3) One (1) shall be appointed for a term of four (4) years.
(e) Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

16 CAR § 60-102. Purpose of the board.
(a) The purpose of the Crime Victims Reparations Board shall be to hear and
decide all matters relating to crime victims reparations applications.
(b) The board shall have the authority to award compensation to victims of crime
for economic loss arising from criminally injurious conduct if satisfied by a
preponderance of the evidence that the requirements for compensation have been met.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-103. Powers and duties of the board.
The Crime Victims Reparations Board shall have the power:
(1) To hear and determine all matters relating to applications filed with the
board for compensation, including the power to reinvestigate or reopen claims without
regard to the statutes of limitations;
(2)(A) The board, or the Administrator of the Crime Victims Reparations Board,
on behalf of the board, may:
(i) Subpoena witnesses and compel their attendance;
(ii) Enter orders;
(iii) Require the production of records and other evidence;
(iv) Administer oaths or affirmations;
(v) Conduct hearings; and
(vi) Receive relevant evidence.
(B) The board shall be considered in continuous session for the purposes
stated above;
(3) To regulate its own procedures, except as otherwise provided in the
Arkansas Crime Victims Reparations Act, Arkansas Code § 16-90-701 et seq.;
(4) To adopt rules to implement the provisions of the Arkansas Crime Victims
Reparations Act;
(5) To define any term not defined in the Arkansas Crime Victims Reparations
Act;
2

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(6) To prescribe forms necessary to carry out the purposes of the Arkansas
Crime Victims Reparations Act;
(7) To request access to any reports of investigations or other data necessary
to assist the board in making a determination of eligibility for compensation;
(8) To publicize the availability of compensation and information regarding the
filing of claims therefore;
(9) To order the claimant to submit to a mental or physical examination or
order the autopsy of a deceased victim if the results would be material to a claim;
(10) To require the claimant to supply any additional medical or psychological
reports available relating to the injury or death for which compensation is claimed;
(11) To deny, withdraw, or reduce an award of compensation upon finding
that the claimant did not fully cooperate with the appropriate law enforcement
agencies;
(12) To reconsider a decision granting or denying a compensation award,
based on its own motion or on request of the claimant;
(13) To suspend the application for compensation proceedings pending
disposition of a criminal prosecution that has been commenced or is imminent, but the
board may make a tentative award;
(14) To join in a civil action as a part plaintiff to recover the compensation
awarded if the claimant brings such action;
(15) The board shall be provided such office, supplies, staff, and secretarial
services as necessary by the Department of Public Safety;
(16) All necessary and reasonable expenses of the board shall be paid for from
the Crime Victims Reparations Revolving Fund;
(17) The board shall have the duty of preparing and transmitting an annual
report to the Governor; and
(18) To reimburse any medical facility or licensed healthcare provider for the
reasonable cost of providing medical-legal examinations to victims of sexual assault as
outlined in Arkansas Code § 12-12-401 et seq.

3

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-104. Meetings of the board.
(a) The Crime Victims Reparations Board shall meet on the third Thursday of
January, March, May, July, September, and November, six (6) times each year, or at
the call of the Chair of the Crime Victims Reparations Board, at 9:30 a.m. to hear
appeal claims.
(b)(1) The chair shall serve as presiding officer at all official meetings of the board.
(2) In the absence of the chair, the remaining board members present at the
meeting may designate a president officer for that meeting.
(c) The chair shall have the authority to vote on all matters coming before the
board.
(d)(1) A majority of the board shall constitute a quorum at hearings on appeal
claims.
(2) The concurrence of two (2) members of the board shall be necessary to
determine the outcome of a claim.
(3) The board may act in a panel of three (3) with proxies or consent decrees
being permitted.
(e) In the event of a tie vote the matter or matters shall be continued to the next
meeting.
(f)(1) The order of business at any meeting of the board shall follow the agenda
prepared in advanced of the meeting.
(2) Such other matters may be brought before the board as shall be requested
by any member in writing and presented to the chair.
(g) Administrative staff shall be responsible for preparation of minutes for each
board meeting.
(h) Robert’s Rules of Order, revised, shall govern all meetings of this board.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.

4

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

16 CAR § 60-105. Board staff.
(a) The Administrator of the Crime Victims Reparations Board shall be the chief
executive officer of the board staff.
(b) He or she shall be hired by the Secretary of the Department of Public Safety
with the advice and consent of the board.
(c) He or she shall be responsible for the administration of the rules, policies, and
procedures promulgated by the board, pursuant to the Arkansas Administrative
Procedure Act, Arkansas Code § 25-15-201 et seq., and within such restraints as
mandated by statute.
(d) The administrator shall:
(1) Be responsible for employment, supervision, evaluation, and termination of
board employees; and
(2) Delegate appropriate powers and duties to them, subject to the advice
and/or consent of the secretary and the board.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-106. Amendment to rules.
Any modification or amendment to this part shall be made pursuant to the
procedure as outlined in the Arkansas Administrative Procedure Act, Arkansas Code §
25-15-201 et seq.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-107. Conflict of interest.
(a)(1) No member of the Crime Victims Reparations Board shall use such
appointment for purposes that are motivated by private gain, including gain for
providers, claimants, or victims with which the board member is associated within any
capacity.

5

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(2) There shall exist a conflict of interest when a provider, claimant, or victim
with whom the board member is associated with appears before the board in the
course of business of the board.
(b)(1) When such a conflict arises for a member, the individual member should
declare the conflict.
(2) Additionally, any member of the board who questions whether or not
another member has a conflict of interest in the matter under discussion may ask for a
determination by the board.
(3) If the board finds that a conflict exists, the affected member shall also
follow the aforementioned procedure.
(c) Any member of the board who declares a conflict of interest, or who is found to
have a conflict, should neither participate in debate nor vote on the issue in question.
(d) A conflict of interest shall exist among members of the administrative staff in
any case where a member of the Department of Public Safety's staff or a person
related, whether by blood, adoption, or marriage within the second degree of
consanguinity to a member of the department’s staff is the claimant or victim on a claim
for compensation.
(e) Additionally, the Administrator of the Crime Victims Reparations Board and the
staff attorney may determine that a conflict of interest exists on claims where one (1)
or more members of the administrative staff know the claimant or victim.
(f) Administrative staff members shall immediately notify the administrator when
another member of the department’s staff or someone whom they believe is known by
one (1) or more members of the administrative staff has filed a claim.
(g) In the event that a conflict arises or exists among all members of the
administrative staff, the administrative staff may gather necessary information and
present the application and attachments to the board, but shall not:
(1) Participate in the debate; or
(2) Vote on the claim in question.
(h) The administrative staff shall also immediately notify the administrator when
such staff members know the victim or claimant on a particular claim.
6

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(i)(1) If only one (1) staff member is determined to have a conflict, then that staff
member shall not:
(A) Participate in the debate; or
(B) Vote on the claim in question.
(2) If that staff member has been assigned to investigate the claim, then the
administrator shall immediately reassign the claim to another investigator.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
Subpart 2. Crime Victims Reparations
16 CAR § 60-201. Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
(1)(A) “Allowable expense” means a charge incurred for needed products,
services, and accommodations, including, but not limited to:
(i) Medical care;
(ii) Rehabilitation;
(iii) Rehabilitative occupational training;
(iv) Crime scene cleanup; and
(v) Other remedial treatment and care.
(B) It also includes a total charge not in excess of seven thousand five
hundred dollars ($7,500) for expenses related to:
(i) Funeral;
(ii) Cremation; or
(iii) Burial.
(C) Such term shall also include the cost of legal services for the
establishment of guardianship for minor children pursuant to this part;
(2) “Board” means the Crime Victims Reparations Board, hereinafter referred
to as the board;

7

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(3) “Catastrophic” means injuries involving a sustained loss of function,
including, but not limited to, any of the following conditions:
(A) Mangling, crushing, or amputation of a major portion of an extremity;
(B) Traumatic injury to the spinal cord that has caused or may cause
paralysis;
(C) Severe burns that require burn center care; or
(D) Serious head injury, loss of vision, or loss of hearing;
(4)(A) “Claimant” means any of the following persons applying for reparations
under the Arkansas Crime Victims Reparations Act, Arkansas Code § 16-90-701 et seq.:
(i) A victim;
(ii) A dependent of a victim who has died because of criminally
injurious conduct; or
(iii) A person authorized to act on behalf of any of the persons listed
above.
(B) The term shall not include a service provider;
(5) “Collateral source” means a source of benefits or advantages for economic
loss that the claimant has received or that is readily available to the claimant, including,
but not limited to, any one (1) or more of the following:
(A) The offender;
(B) The United States Government or any agency thereof, in the form of
benefits, such as Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, or a state or any of its
political subdivisions;
(C) State-required temporary nonoccupational disability insurance;
(D) Workers’ compensation;
(E) Wage continuation programs of any employer;
(F) Proceeds of a contract of insurance payable to the claimant for loss
which the victim sustained because of the criminally injurious conduct; or
(G) A contract providing prepaid hospital and other health care service or
benefits for disability;

8

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(6)(A) “Criminally injurious conduct” means an act that occurs or is attempted
in this state that results in personal injury or death to a victim that is punishable by:
(i) Fine;
(ii) Imprisonment; or
(iii) Death.
(B) This term shall include acts of terrorism committed outside of the
United States as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 2331 against any Arkansas resident.
(C) This term shall not include acts arising out of the operation of motor
vehicles, boats, or aircraft unless the acts involve any of the following:
(i) Injury or death intentionally inflicted through the use of a motor
vehicle, boat, or aircraft;
(ii) A violation of the Omnibus DWI or BWI Act, Arkansas Code § 565-101 et seq.; or
(iii) A violation of Arkansas Code § 27-53-101 (leaving the scene of
an accident involving serious injury or death);
(7) “Dependent” means a natural person wholly or partially dependent upon
the victim for care or support and includes a child of a victim born after the death of the
victim where the death occurred as a result of criminally injurious conduct;
(8) “Economic loss” means monetary detriment consisting of allowable
expense and work loss, but shall not include noneconomic detriment;
(9) “Immediate family” means a person's spouse, children, parents or
guardian, siblings, and grandparents, whether related by:
(A) Blood;
(B) Adoption; or
(C) Marriage;
(10) “Noneconomic detriment” means:
(A) Pain;
(B) Suffering;
(C) Inconvenience;
(D) Physical impairment; and
9

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(E) Nonpecuniary damage;
(11) “Personal injury” means actual bodily harm, including pregnancy or
mental anguish, that is the direct result of a violent criminal act;
(12) “Total and permanent disability” means an impairment based upon
demonstrable medical evidence that restricts the victim from performing the usual tasks
of a worker to such an extent that the victim cannot maintain employment;
(13)(A) “Victim” means a person who suffers personal injury or death as a
result of criminally injurious conduct committed within the State of Arkansas.
(B) The term further includes:
(i) Any Arkansas resident who suffers personal injury as the result of
criminally injurious conduct that occurs in states presently not having crime victims
reparations programs for which the victim is eligible; and
(ii) Any Arkansas resident who is injured or killed by an act of
terrorism committed outside of the United States as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 2331.
(C) The term "victim" shall include a person who:
(i) Is an immediate family member of a:

(a) Deceased victim;
(b) Victim of sexual assault; or
(c) Child victim;
(ii) Is not an immediate family member, but resided, at the time of
the crime, in the same permanent household as a deceased victim;
(iii) Discovered the body of a victim who dies as the result of
criminally injurious conduct; or
(iv) Is the minor child, whether by blood, adoption, or marriage, of an
eligible victim; and
(14)(A) “Work loss” means loss of income from work the victim or claimant
would have performed in their regular course of employment if the victim had not been
injured or died, reduced by:
(i) Any income from substitute work actually performed by the victim
or claimant; or
10

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(ii) Income the victim or claimant would have earned in available
appropriate substitute work that he or she was capable of performing but unreasonably
failed to undertake.
(B) Individuals filing claims must provide clear and convincing evidence of
employment, including, but not limited to:
(i) Pay stubs;
(ii) Tax returns; or
(iii) Certified documentation from employer.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-202. Types of compensation available.
For victims, as defined by Arkansas Code § 16-90-703(11), compensation is
available for the following types of expenses:
(1)(A) Economic loss sustained by the victim or a dependent arising from the
criminally injurious conduct of another.
(B) Future economic loss is also compensable but may be reduced or
discontinued if the recipient's circumstances change; and
(2)(A) Mental health expenses incurred as a result of the criminally injurious
conduct of another.
(B) Awards for mental health expenses, for any victim, shall be made in
accordance with guidelines established by a committee of mental health professionals
appointed by the Crime Victims Reparations Board.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-203. Eligibility criteria for compensation.
(a) The criminally injurious conduct leading to the filing of the reparations claim
must have occurred:
(1) In Arkansas;
11

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(2) To a resident of Arkansas in a state without a reparations program for
which the victim is eligible; or
(3) To a resident of Arkansas who is injured or killed by an act of terrorism
committed outside of the United States as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 2331.
(b) The incident must have occurred on or after July 1, 1988.
(c)(1) The incident must have been reported to the proper authorities within
seventy-two (72) hours or would have been reported within the period of time except
for good cause.
(2) Good cause shall include, but not be limited to, the:
(A) Physical incapacity of a victim;
(B) Mental incompetence of a victim;
(C) Age of the victim; and
(D) Injury was not reasonably discoverable.
(d)(1) The application for compensation must be filed within one (1) year of the
incident, unless the Crime Victims Reparations Board finds good cause for failure to file
a timely claim.
(2) Good cause shall include, but not be limited to:
(A) The physical incapacity of a victim;
(B) The mental incompetence of a victim;
(C) The age of the victim;
(D) The injury was not reasonably discoverable;
(E) Restitution or other collateral source was regularly being paid and
then terminated; and
(F) Postal service delays that are verifiable.
(e) The victim must have suffered personal injury or death as a result of the
criminal act of another.
(f)(1) The claimant and/or victim must, to the extent able, have cooperated with
law enforcement officials during their investigation.
(2) The following issues may be considered when determining cooperation:

12

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(A) Failure to cooperate in the prosecution of the defendant or to appear
as a witness;
(B) Not cooperating initially but later deciding to cooperate and the delay
allows the defendant to escape prosecution;
(C) Not cooperating initially but later deciding to cooperate without any
good cause as to the delay;
(D) Causing extra or unnecessary effort on the part of law enforcement to
gain prosecution;
(E) Reluctantly providing information pertaining to the crime, failing to
appear when requested without good cause, giving false or misleading information, or
attempting to avoid law enforcement;
(F) Failing to prosecute or cooperate with law enforcement because of
fear for his or her personal safety;
(G) Failing to give testimony or otherwise cooperate with the prosecutor's
office; and
(H) Failing to cooperate with the board’s administrative staff by not
returning requested information, not returning telephone calls, not providing accurate
information, etc.
(g) The net amount of compensation requested in the application must not have
been paid by another source.
(h)(1) The claimant and/or victim was not the offender or an accomplice of the
offender.
(2) Claimant/victim may be denied if he or she has been engaged in an illegal
activity during his or her victimization.
(3) Illegal activity may consist of any of the following, but is not limited to:
(A) Victim was buying drugs;
(B) Victim was using drugs;
(C) Victim was a minor and drinking alcohol; or
(D) Victim was in an illegal place of business, such as a:
(i) Crack house;
13

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(ii) House of prostitution; or
(iii) Gambling establishment.
(4) If claimant/victim contributed or was offender.
(A) Compensation shall not be awarded to a claimant/victim who was the
offender or an accomplice to the offender or who encouraged or in any way
participated in the criminally injurious conduct.
(B) Compensation may be diminished to the extent or the degree of
responsibility for the cause of the injury or death attributable to the victim, as
determined by the board.
(5) In determining the amount of an award, the board shall determine
whether, because of his or her conduct, the victim of such crime or the intervenor
contributed to the infliction of his or her injury or to his or her death, and the board
shall reduce the amount of the award or reject the claim altogether, in accordance with
such determination.
(6) Contribution is determined by the action portrayed by the victim at the
time of or immediately preceding the crime.
(7) While there is no set formula for calculating the percentage of contribution
to be assessed, the following factors should serve as a guideline:
(A) If it appears that the victim was provoked by the defendant in a
manner threatening bodily harm to the victim, and the victim acted in self-defense, no
contribution should be assessed;
(B) If it appears that the victim was provoked by the defendant in a
manner where bodily harm to the victim appeared unlikely, and the victim used poor
judgment because of intoxication or other drug involvement, a twenty-five percent
(25%) contribution factor should be assessed;
(C) If it appears that the defendant was provoked by the victim in a
manner where bodily harm appeared unlikely, a fifty percent (50%) contribution factor
should be assessed;
(D) If the victim is injured as a result of his or her conduct not being that
of a prudent person, a fifty percent (50%) contribution factor should be assessed;
14

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(E) If it appears that the defendant was provoked by the victim in a
manner where bodily harm to the defendant appears intentional, a seventy-five percent
(75%) contribution factor should be assessed;
(F) If it appears that the defendant was provoked by the victim in a
manner where bodily harm to the defendant is unquestionable, a one hundred percent
(100%) contribution factor should be assessed and the claim denied;
(G)(i) If the victim is not wearing protective equipment as prescribed by
law, a twenty-five percent (25%) contribution factor shall be assessed.
(ii) This includes helmets, seat belts, etc.; and
(H) If the victim was involved in drugs as verified by the police report or
other official documents, a one hundred percent (100%) contribution factor should be
assessed and the claim denied.
(i) The injury or death must not have been the result of negligent maintenance or
use of a motor vehicle unless the acts are committed with the intent to inflict injury or
death or unless the acts committed were in violation of:
(1) The Omnibus DWI or BWI Act, Arkansas Code § 5-65-101 et seq.; or
(2) Arkansas Code § 27-53-101, leaving the scene of an accident involving
serious injury or death.
(j) Claimant/victim has not been convicted of a felony involving criminally injurious
conduct.
(k) Awards shall not be made to a victim who is injured or killed while confined in
state, county, or municipal jail, prison, or other correctional facility as a result of
conviction of any crime.
(l) The award would unjustly benefit the offender or accomplice except as
permitted by this part.
(m) In those cases where the victim has died, the claimant will be considered to
have no compensable loss for the expenses incurred by the victim as a result of the
criminally injurious conduct if the claimant has no legal obligation to pay for these
expenses.

15

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-204. Unjust enrichment.
(a)(1) No portion of a compensation award shall unjustly benefit the offender or
accomplice.
(2) However, no award shall be denied solely on the basis of the:
(A) Victim’s familial relationship to the offender; or
(B) Presence of the offender in the household at the time of the award.
(b) In determining whether or not an award would unjustly benefit the offender,
the following factors should be considered:
(1)(A) The legal responsibilities of the offender to the victim and collateral
resources available to the victim from the offender.
(B) Victims of family violence must not be penalized when collateral
sources of payment are not viable;
(2) Payments to victims of family violence that only minimally or
inconsequentially benefit the offender; and
(3) The special needs of child witnesses to violence and child victims of
criminal violence, especially when the perpetrator is a parent who may or may not live
in the same residence.
(c)(1) Collateral resources available to the victim from the offender shall be
considered when awarding a claim.
(2) However, the victim shall not be penalized for the failure of an offender to
meet legal obligations to pay for the costs of the victim's recovery.
(d) Payments to third-party providers shall be made to prevent cash intended for
the victim's bills to be used by or on behalf of the offender.
(e) The Crime Victims Reparations Board shall not penalize child victims by denying
or delaying payment when offender or collateral resources are not forthcoming.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.

16

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

16 CAR § 60-205. Maximum compensation amounts and methods of
payments.
(a)(1) Compensation payable to a victim or claimant incurring expenses due to
injury or death may not exceed a total of ten thousand dollars ($10,000).
(2) However, for those victims whose injuries are catastrophic and result in a
total and permanent disability, the maximum reparations amount shall not exceed
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000).
(b)(1) Compensation for funeral expenses of deceased victims may not exceed
seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500).
(2) Collateral sources of income, such as burial policies, workers'
compensation, etc., will be applied towards the total cost of the victim's funeral.
(3) Life insurance may not be used as a collateral source when dependents of
the deceased victim remain and may benefit from the proceeds of this policy.
(4) Life insurance will be utilized as a collateral source and be applied against
funeral expenses in those cases involving no surviving dependents.
(c) The Crime Victims Reparations Board may provide for the payment to a
claimant in a lump sum or in installments.
(d) The board shall pay all or part of an award directly to service providers unless
evidence of prior payment for services is submitted.
(e)(1) The board may also provide for payment of legal fees, not to exceed two
hundred fifty dollars ($250), plus filing fees, of a guardianship when an award has been
made to a minor child pursuant to this part.
(2) Legal services expenses shall not be deducted from the otherwise
compensable amount unless amount is over ten thousand dollars ($10,000).
(f) Upon request of the claimant, the board may convert future economic loss,
other than allowable expense, to a lump sum, but only upon a finding by the board of
either of the following:
(1) That the award in a lump sum will promote the interests of the claimant;
or

17

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(2) That the present value of all future economic loss does not exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000).
(g) An award payable in installments for future economic loss may be made only
for a period that the board can reasonably determine future economic loss and may be
modified by the board upon finding that a significant change in circumstances has
occurred.
(h) Approved claims will be paid in the order of their approval by the board as
funds become available.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-206. Application review procedure.
(a)(1) A victim, dependent of a victim, or person legally acting on behalf of the
victim must first secure a copy of the official Victims Reparations Application form from:
(A) Their local prosecuting attorney's office, law enforcement agency,
victim/witness coordinator, service provider; or
(B) The Crime Victims Reparations Board.
(2) Assistance in completing the form may be provided by the:
(A) Victim/witness coordinator; or
(B) Prosecuting attorney's staff in districts that have no victim/witness
coordinator.
(3) The board’s staff will also be available to assist in the completion of the
form.
(b) A form must be:
(1) Completed in its entirety; and
(2) Accompanied with an itemized statement and police offense report or other
official documentation from the agency to which the incident was reported.
(c)(1) A victim must submit a Victims Reparations Application as a necessary (but
not sufficient) condition of directly receiving payment.

18

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(2) The board may directly reimburse a medical care provider for costs
associated with a sexual assault testing kit, even in the absence of a victim's
application.
(3) Such costs, which include those associated with testing for sexually
transmitted diseases, may be reimbursed regardless of which fund or cost center is
used to make the reimbursement.
(d) The staff of the board shall:
(1) Log the application as being received; and
(2) Begin a thorough review and verification process.
(e) The board and staff have the authority to conduct investigations and/or request
any additional information from:
(1) The victim;
(2) The investigating law enforcement agency;
(3) Medical personnel and/or facilities;
(4) Witnesses;
(5) Employers; and
(6) Others as may be deemed necessary for the proper review and verification
of the application.
(f) The staff shall make a thorough analysis of the application and attachments,
then prepare staff comments relative to the application, which shall be filed in the
application folder along with supportive data that is pertinent to the investigation.
(g) The administrative staff shall have the authority to review and decide crime
victim reparations claims up to the maximum allowable amount of:
(1) Ten thousand dollars ($10,000); or
(2) Twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) for victims whose injuries are
catastrophic and result in a total and permanent disability.
(h)(1) The administrative staff of the board shall then make a decision regarding
the claim.
(2) The claimant/victim shall be mailed notification of the administrative
decision within fifteen (15) calendar days by mail.
19

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(3) If the claim is denied, the claimant/victim will be notified by certified mail,
return receipt requested.
(i) The claimant shall have the right to appeal decisions of the board in the manner
set forth in 16 CAR § 60-208.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-207. Advance (emergency) award of compensation.
(a)(1) The Crime Victims Reparations Board may make or authorize the
Administrator of the Crime Victims Reparations Board to make an advance (emergency)
award of compensation to the claimant/victim prior to taking action on an application
and pending a final decision when:
(A) It appears the claim is one for which compensation is probable; and
(B) Undue hardship will result to the claimant/victim if immediate payment
is not made.
(2) The claimant/victim may:
(A) Request in the application that consideration be given for an advance
award; and
(B) Provide justification for such award.
(3) A decision denying emergency relief shall not be appealable.
(b)(1) The amount of such advance (emergency) award shall not exceed five
hundred dollars ($500).
(2) Any advance award shall be deducted from the final compensation made to
the claimant/victim.
(3) If the final award amount is less than the amount of the advance award,
the claimant/victim must repay the excess to the board.
(4) If an emergency award is made and the claimant/victim later does not
follow through with prosecution or some other requirement of this program, the
claimant/victim will be required to reimburse the board for the amount of the award
made.
20

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(c) Criteria for payment of emergency awards is listed below:
(1) Claimant/victim is without an income at the time of application resulting in
loss of:
(A) Food;
(B) Heat; or
(C) Shelter; or
(2) Claimant/victim cannot receive emergency service (i.e. burial) without the
emergency payment.
(d) Documentation required:
(1) Proof of financial emergency should be obtained for the file, such as:
(A) Notice of eviction from the landlord; or
(B) A shut-off notice from the power company;
(2) If no proof is available, then the investigator should note in file why he or
she thinks the application is considered an emergency;
(3)(A) There must be contact with the investigating law enforcement officer to
verify:
(i) What occurred;
(ii) The victim's innocence; and
(iii) The victim's cooperation.
(B) A law enforcement offense report and Crime Victims Reparations
Board Law Enforcement Form must be included in the file;
(4)(A) For wage loss claims, the employer may be contacted by telephone but
the written verification must follow to go in the file.
(B) If self-employed, the applicant must provide a copy of his or her last
three (3) years’ tax returns or check stubs for the last three (3) months as proof of his
or her income.
(C) If proof is not available, lost wages cannot be considered;
(5) If the injury is not commensurate with the time lost from work, a doctor's
excuse will be required; and

21

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(6) Claimant/victim is required to sign a promissory (demand) note, which
must be signed and executed by the claimant/victim with the administrator prior to
receiving the emergency award.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-208. Appeals procedure.
(a) In the event an application for compensation is approved in a modified form or
denied, the administrative staff of the Crime Victims Reparations Board shall notify the
claimant/victim by certified mail, return receipt requested, within fifteen (15) calendar
days setting forth the basis of the decision.
(b) The claimant/victim shall have the right to appeal and may do so by notifying
the administrative staff of the board, in writing, by certified mail, return receipt
requested, of the intent to appeal within forty-five (45) calendar days of the date of the
notification letter setting forth the board’s decision.
(c)(1) The claimant/victim shall then be entitled to a formal hearing before the
board.
(2) The hearing shall be held within ninety (90) calendar days of the date of
the notice from the claimant/victim stating the intent to appeal.
(d)(1) The claimant/victim, or an authorized representative in the event the
claimant/victim is incapacitated, must be present at the appeal hearing.
(2) In an appeals hearing, all parties shall be afforded an opportunity to
appear and be heard.
(3) A record of the proceedings shall be made and shall be transcribed upon
request of any party, who shall pay transcription costs unless otherwise ordered by the
board.
(e) Notification of board meetings shall be made in compliance with the Freedom of
Information Act of 1967, Arkansas Code §§ 25-19-101 – 25-19-107.
(f) All agendas and supporting documentation necessary shall be mailed to the
board ten (10) calendar days in advance of the board meeting.
22

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(g) The board may, without a hearing, settle a claim by:
(1) Stipulation;
(2) Agreed settlement;
(3) Consent order; or
(4) Default.
(h) The board shall render its decision relative to the appeal within ten (10)
calendar days of the formal hearing, and the claimant/victim will be notified by mail.
(i) The claimant/victim, if not successful in the appeal to the board shall then have
thirty (30) days from the receipt of the decision to file a petition for judicial review
pursuant to Arkansas Code § 25-15-212 in the circuit court of:
(1) His or her county of residence; or
(2) Pulaski County.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-209. Claims of incompetents or minor children.
(a) Proof of the establishment of the guardianship may be required by the Crime
Victims Reparations Board prior to release of funds to the claimant.
(b) A certified copy of the order of guardianship shall be sufficient proof.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-210. Cost ceiling on medical bills.
(a)(1) In connection with claims for payment on medical bills not covered by
insurance made by
victims, the Crime Victims Reparations Board will award up to sixty-five percent (65%)
of medical bills, not to exceed a total reimbursement of ten thousand dollars ($10,000).
(2) However, for those victims whose injuries are catastrophic and result in a
total and permanent disability, the total reimbursement shall not exceed twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000).
23

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(b) The provider of medical services to whom the award is made will be notified
that by accepting the payment of sixty-five percent (65%) of their bill, they are
agreeing not to commence civil actions against the victim or his or her legal
representative to recover the balance due under the bill.
(c) Acceptance of payment for services paid by the board:
(1) Shall be considered payment in full; and
(2) Bars any legal action for collection.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-211. Cost ceiling on mental health bills.
(a)(1) In connection with claims for payment of mental health services, not
covered by insurance, incurred by victims, the Crime Victims Reparations Board will pay
a maximum of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) or provide for six (6)
months, whichever occurs first, provided the treatment plan is submitted within thirty
(30) days of:
(A) The application to the board for those victims receiving ongoing
therapy; or
(B) Beginning therapy for those victims who seek mental health treatment
after making application to the board.
(2) This treatment plan must state:
(A) The basis for the necessity of such treatment;
(B) The anticipated extent of the treatment;
(C) The relationship of the treatment to the crime perpetrated upon the
victim; and
(D) Whether or not the diagnosis is related to a preexisting condition.
(b)(1) A mandatory review by the board is required after ninety (90) days or two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500), whichever occurs first, should the victim of the
provider find that further services are required.

24

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(2) The provider will be required to submit a new treatment plan to justify the
continued need for the treatment and its continued relationship to the crime.
(3) The board may waive the maximum upon a justification of special need
based upon documentation to be submitted by the provider.
(4) The board also reserves the right to have any mental health claims and
treatment plans reviewed by an independent peer review committee should it so desire.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-212. Supplemental awards.
(a)(1) If at the time of the application, the victim or claimant was unable to submit
all of the itemized bills, he or she may submit supplemental bills to be considered after
the original award.
(2) If a victim or claimant has been awarded their original claim at a reduced
amount due to contribution, then the Crime Victims Reparations Board will note at the
time of approval whether or not they will consider any supplemental awards concerning
this claim.
(3) If the board determines that supplemental awards will not be considered
after the initial award, the board shall so note at the time of the initial award.
(4) Each case will be considered on its own merits.
(b) The total of the original award and any and all supplemental awards may not
exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000).
(c) Supplemental awards may be paid quarterly.
(d) Supplemental bills will be considered only if submitted within one (1) year of:
(1) The date of treatment; or
(2) Notification of payment or denial by a collateral source.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-213. Financial obligation requirement.
25

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(a) Reparations shall not be awarded to any victim/claimant who owes a financial
obligation ordered or imposed as a result of a previous criminal conviction until the
Crime Victims Reparations Board receives information or materials establishing to the
satisfaction of the board that the financial obligation has been satisfied.
(b) If the board does not receive the information or materials within six (6) months
after the board notifies the victim/claimant, the:
(1) Application will be closed; and
(2) Victim notified of their right to appeal.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-214. Penalty for false claims.
(a) The filing of a false claim for compensation pursuant to the Arkansas Crime
Victims Reparations Act, Arkansas Code § 16-90-701 et seq., shall constitute a Class D
felony.
(b) If a victim or a claimant knowingly files a false claim or provides false
information or fails to provide material facts or circumstances necessary to substantiate
the claim, he or she may not at a later date file a correct claim.
(c) If this happens, the claim shall be denied.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
Subpart 3. Sexual Assault Reimbursement
16 CAR § 60-301. Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
(1) “Board” means the Crime Victims Reparations Board, hereinafter referred
to as the board;
(2) “Collateral source” means a source of benefits or advantages for economic
loss, including, but not limited to:
26

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(A) The United States Government or any agency thereof, in the form of
benefits such as Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, or a state or any of its political
subdivisions;
(B) Proceeds of a contract of insurance payable to the sexual assault
victim; and
(C) A contract providing prepaid hospital and other healthcare services or
benefits;
(3) “Licensed healthcare provider” means a:
(A) Person licensed in a healthcare field who conducts medical-legal
examinations; or
(B) A medical facility that is currently licensed by the Department of
Health and provides emergency services;
(4) “Medical-legal examination” means health care delivered to a possible
victim of a sexual assault, with an emphasis on the gathering and preserving of
evidence for the purpose of serving criminal justice;
(5) “Sexual assault” means an offense described in Arkansas Code § 5-14-101
et seq., or § 5-26-202; and
(6) “Victim” means any person who has been a victim of any alleged sexual
assault or incest as defined by Arkansas Code § 5-14-101 et seq., and § 5-26-202.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-302. Eligibility criteria for compensation.
(a)(1) The victim received the medical-legal examination within ninety-six (96)
hours of the attack or would have received the medical-legal examination within the
required time except for good cause.
(2) Good cause includes, but is not limited to:
(A) The physical incapacity of the victim;
(B) The mental incompetence of the victim;
(C) The age of the victim; or
27

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

(D) The sexual assault was not reasonably discoverable.
(b)(1) The billing for the medical-legal examination is submitted to the Crime
Victims Reparations Board within three (3) months of the medical-legal examination,
unless the board finds good cause for failure to timely submit.
(2) Good cause includes, but is not limited to:
(A) Restitution or other collateral source was terminated;
(B) Verifiable postal service delays; and
(C) Other good cause as determined by the board.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-303. Collateral sources.
Medical-legal examination bills will be denied or diminished to the extent that the
expenses can be recuperated from a collateral source.
Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.
16 CAR § 60-304. Maximum payment amounts.
(a)(1) Acceptance of payment by the medical provider from the Crime Victims
Reparations Board constitutes a full and final payment for the services.
(2) Any remaining balances shall not be submitted to the victim.
(b)(1) The board may reimburse the following expenses.
(2) The amount listed constitutes the maximum allowable reimbursement by
the board.
Facility Fee

$350

SANE Nurse Fee

$350

Labs

$200

Colposcope

$160.88

28

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

Authority. Arkansas Code § 16-90-706.

29

03/22/2026 09:31:04 PM

