Arkansas Code § 16-90-716 (2025) - Limitation on reparations — Manner of payment :: 2025 Arkansas Code :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Arkansas Code (here) 2024 Arkansas Code 2023 Arkansas Code View All Versions 2025 Arkansas Code Title 16 - Practice, Procedure, and Courts Subtitle 6 - Criminal Procedure Generally Chapter 90 - Judgment and Sentence Generally Subchapter 7 - Arkansas Crime Victims Reparations Act § 16-90-716. Limitation on reparations — Manner of payment Universal Citation: AR Code § 16-90-716 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next (a) (1) Reparations payable to a victim and to all other claimants sustaining economic loss because of injury to or death of that victim may not exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000). (2) However, for those victims whose injuries are catastrophic and result in a total and permanent disability, the maximum reparations amount shall not exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000). (b) (1) The Crime Victims Reparations Board may provide for the payment to a claimant in a lump sum or in installments. (2) At the request of the claimant, the board may convert future economic loss other than allowable expense to a lump sum, but only upon a finding by the board of either of the following: (A) That the award in a lump sum will promote the interests of the claimant; or (B) That the present value of all future economic loss other than allowable expense does not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000). (c) If the board determines that the claimant will suffer financial hardship unless an advance award is made, an amount may be paid to the claimant and shall be deducted from the final award or shall be repaid and recoverable from the claimant to the extent that it exceeds the final award. (d) (1) An award payable in installments for future economic loss may be made only for a period as to which the board can reasonably determine future economic loss. (2) An award payable in installments for future economic loss may be modified by the board upon its finding that a material and substantial change of circumstances has occurred. (e) An award shall not be subject to execution, attachment, garnishment, or other process, except that an award for allowable expense shall not be exempt from a claim of a creditor to the extent that the creditor has provided products, services, or accommodations, the costs of which are included in the award. (f) An assignment by the claimant to any future award under the provisions of this subchapter is unenforceable, except: (1) An assignment of any award for work loss to assure payment of court-ordered alimony, maintenance, or child support; or (2) An assignment of any award for allowable expense to the extent that the benefits are for the cost of products, services, or accommodations necessitated by the injury or death on which the claim is based and are provided or are to be provided by the assignee. History Acts 1987, No. 817, §§ 16, 17; 1999, No. 1178, § 2. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Arkansas may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Steven Gursten Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (855) 975-0874 Ann Arbor, MI Personal Injury Website Email Call Email Profile Daniel T. Geherin PREMIUM (734) 263-2780 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Domestic Violence, Personal Injury, Civil Rights Website Email Call Email Profile James Iafrate Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 994-0200 Ann Arbor, MI Personal Injury, Insurance Claims, Products Liability Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new Arkansas Supreme Court opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions