Crime Victims Reparations Board - Arkansas.gov Skip to Content | Skip to Navigation Skip to content Contact Facebook X-twitter Address: 1 State Police Plaza Drive, Little Rock, AR 72209 Phone: 501-682-1020 Fax: 501-682-5313 About Department of Public Safety Crime Victims Reparations Board The Arkansas Crime Victims Reparations Program, administered by the Department of Public Safety on behalf of the Crime Victims Reparations Board, provides financial compensation to victims who have suffered personal injury or death as the result of violent crime. Eligible victims may qualify for up to $10,000 for medical care, counseling, lost wages, funeral expenses, crime scene clean up and loss of support for dependents of deceased victims. Victims suffering catastrophic injuries may qualify for up to $25,000. Eligible victims may be awarded reparations regardless of whether there has been an arrest or conviction related to the crime. Additionally, the Sexual Assault Reimbursement Program allows evidence to be collected after a sexual assault has been committed without the victim bearing the burden of the expense, and it pays for ambulance services and medical or legal examinations. Victims may apply for compensation by submitting an application to the Arkansas Crime Victim’s Reparations office. Applications are available from the Arkansas Crime Victim’s Reparations office or from one of Arkansas’s 28 elected prosecutors. These programs are funded by fees collected from criminal offenders and a federal grant through the Victims of Crime Act, administered by the U.S. Department of Justice. Eligibility: Victim of a violent crime Minor child of eligible victim Spouse, parent, sibling and grandparent of eligible victim Non-immediate family member who resided in the same household as a deceased victim Individual who discovers a homicide victim's body Person injured by an act of terrorism outside the United States An Arkansas resident victimized in another State that does not have a compensation program Criteria to Receive Compensation: Incident occurred since July 1, 1988, in Arkansas and reported to authorities within 72 hours (minors excluded) Application filed within one year of incident Injury or death as a result of a criminal act Victim or claimant cooperated with investigation and/or prosecution Victim's expenses are not covered by a collateral source Victim or claimant has no criminally injurious felony conviction Victim's conduct did not contribute to the incident Victim did not engage in illegal activity Victim was not incarcerated at time of the incident Injuries from motor vehicle use must involve intent to inflict harm, hit and run or violate Omnibus DWI Act Know Your Rights as a Victim: Crime victims have the right to: Be present at any proceeding where the defendant has a right to be present Submit victim impact statements Basic privacy Be informed Ensure your rights are protected by: Designating someone to receive information about the criminal matter Informing the proper authorities of your representative's name and contact information Maintaining all related written correspondence Cooperating with the prosecution Administration & Board: The program’s administrative staff is responsible for conducting investigations on all submitted claims. The Crime Victims Reparations Board is a five-member body responsible for determining which claims are to be paid and how much may be awarded. Board members are appointed by the Governor. The Arkansas Crime Victims Reparations Board also awards the Crime Victim Advocate of the Year Award annually during National Crime Victims’ Rights Week. Crime Victim's Guide: A Crime Victim’s Guide to the Justice System in Arkansas, a service provided by the Arkansas Crime Information Center, was created to assist victims of crime in better understanding the Arkansas criminal justice system so victims are better able to exercise their rights. It also informs victims of services available to them throughout the state including shelter, cash assistance, counseling, and private support organizations. This guide is not intended as a legal reference or to provide legal advice. Visit the Agency's Website report incorrect agency data Offices / Divisions No results found. Featured Services Frequently Asked Questions Helpful Links Documents & Files CVRB 2019 Rule Change (Markup).pdf CVRB Rule Change Summary.pdf Severe Weather: Donate to the Arkansas Disaster Relief Program