Arkansas Code § 16-90-712 (2025) - Conditions for reparations — Changes in awards :: 2025 Arkansas Code :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Arkansas Code (here) 2024 Arkansas Code 2023 Arkansas Code View All Versions 2025 Arkansas Code Title 16 - Practice, Procedure, and Courts Subtitle 6 - Criminal Procedure Generally Chapter 90 - Judgment and Sentence Generally Subchapter 7 - Arkansas Crime Victims Reparations Act § 16-90-712. Conditions for reparations — Changes in awards Universal Citation: AR Code § 16-90-712 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next (a) Reparations shall not be awarded: (1) Unless the claim has been filed with the Crime Victims Reparations Board within five (5) years after the injury or death upon which the claim is based, except: (A) When the board finds good cause for the failure to file a timely claim; or (B) If the victim is a minor, the claim is filed within five (5) years after the date the victim reaches eighteen (18) years of age; (2) To a claimant who was the offender or an accomplice of the offender; (3) To another person if the award would unjustly benefit the offender or accomplice; (4) To a victim who is injured or killed while confined in state, county, or municipal jail, prison, or other correctional facility as a result of conviction of any crime; (5) To any claimant who has been convicted of a felony involving criminally injurious conduct; (6) Unless the criminally injurious conduct resulting in injury or death was reported to the proper authorities within seventy-two (72) hours after its occurrence, or the board finds there was good cause for the failure to report within that time; or (7) (A) (i) If there are insufficient funds in the Crime Victims Reparations Revolving Fund. (ii) However, when sufficient funds become available, the awards which have not been paid shall be paid in chronological order with the oldest paid first, unless the board finds that compelling circumstances support a payment out of chronological order. (B) Any award under this subchapter is specifically not a claim against the state if it cannot be paid due to a lack of funds in the fund. (b) Reparations otherwise payable to a claimant shall be diminished to the extent: (1) That the economic loss is recouped from collateral sources; or (2) Of the degree of responsibility for the cause of the injury or death attributable to the victim, as determined by the board. (c) (1) Except as provided in subdivision (c)(2) of this section, upon finding that the claimant or victim has not fully cooperated with appropriate law enforcement agencies, the board may deny, withdraw, or reduce an award of reparations. (2) This subsection does not apply if the claimant or victim is a victim of human trafficking or a minor victim of a sex offense, as defined in § 12-12-903. (d) (1) On its own motion or on request of the claimant, the board may reconsider a decision granting or denying an award or determining its amount. (2) An order on reconsideration of an award shall not require a refund of amounts previously paid unless the award was obtained by fraud. (3) Reconsideration does not affect the finality of a board decision for the purpose of judicial review. History Acts 1987, No. 817, § 12; 1999, No. 1102, § 1; 2023, No. 330, § 1; 2025, No. 666, § 2. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Arkansas may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Something went wrong, please try again later. Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Steven Gursten Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (855) 975-0874 Ann Arbor, MI Personal Injury Website Email Call Email Profile Daniel T. Geherin PREMIUM (734) 263-2780 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Domestic Violence, Personal Injury, Civil Rights Website Email Call Email Profile James Iafrate Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 994-0200 Ann Arbor, MI Personal Injury, Insurance Claims, Products Liability Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions