How Compensation Works | Virginia Victims Fund Skip to main content WebFile/Provider Login Forms Debtors - Make Payments News & Notices Breadcrumbs The Claims Process, Explained: Step 1: Apply for benefits Application reviewed for completeness Decision issued about eligibility Step 2: Eligible applications assigned to examiner Supporting documents must be submitted Decision by claims examiner Possible decisions include: Award Expenses are eligible and supported by documents Va. Dept. of Treasury issues a check Denial (An explanation will be provided if a claim is denied.) Expenses are not eligible Claimant is not eligible Crime is not eligible Final Reminder Expenses are eligible but documents are missing Claimant has two years from eligibility date to submit documents or claim will close Step 3: Accept or appeal the award, denial or final reminder decision account_circle Payer of Last Resort Code of Virginia § 19.2-368.11:1(G) states that the Virginia Victims Fund is the payer of last resort. This statute requires claimants to exhaust all available collateral resources before VVF can make payment. The resources relevant in each claim depend on both the crime type and the resources available to the victim. This includes but is not limited to: Health insurance benefits Homeowners and renters insurance Auto insurance Medicare/Medicaid Social security benefits Healthcare provider financial assistance/charity care Life insurance Funeral/burial insurance Deceased victim's estate in excess of $25,000 Disability insurance Workers compensation Sick leave and/or short term disability Court-ordered restitution Civil suits* *Attorney information is only needed if civil suit is requesting expenses which were also requested through VVF. The Fund cannot consider payment for pain and suffering and non-eligible property damage. See Non-Eligible Expenses for additional information. paid Eligible Expenses People impacted by crime in Virginia can apply for assistance with reasonable and necessary expenses that arise from the crime. These can include: Medical Expenses Funeral Expenses Lost Wages Prescriptions Home Security Crime-Scene Clean-Up Moving Temporary Housing Mileage to medical appointments to court-related appointments for child victims Loss of Support From an offender removed from the home in domestic violence or child sexual-assault cases Dependents of homicide victims Counseling For direct victims For children who witness violence against caretaker For the immediate family of a homicide victim paid Non-Eligible Expenses VVF cannot reimburse applicants for the following expenses: Replacement of stolen vehicles, cellphones, money, or other personal property Legal/ attorney fees Compensation for pain and suffering Fees related to missed doctors' appointments Towing/vehicle recovery Injuries resulting from the operation of a vehicle; unless the incident was a DUI, Felony Hit & Run or the injuries were intentionally inflicted through the use of a vehicle VVF cannot pay any expenses incurred while a person is in the custody of Department of Justice (DOJ) In general, property damage cannot be considered by VVF, but there are some important exceptions: If a medically necessary device is damaged in the crime, like glasses, dentures, hearing aids, or prosthetic limbs, these items can be replaced. This loss should appear in the police report or in a statement from the officer. Windows and locks may be replaced in a breaking and entering case. When clothing or bedding are taken as evidence, VVF may pay for the purchase of a replacement.