§ 19.2-368.5:2. Effect of filing a claim; stay of debt collection activities by health care providers Session Information Bills & Resolutions State Budget Virginia Law Reports to the General Assembly Virginia Law Select Search Type All Code of Virginia Administrative Code Constitution Charters Authorities Compacts Uncodified Acts Code of Virginia Table of Contents » Title 19.2. Criminal Procedure » Chapter 21.1. Compensating Victims of Crime » § 19.2-368.5:2. Effect of filing a claim; stay of debt collection activities by health care providers Creating a Report: Check the sections you'd like to appear in the report, then use the "Create Report" button at the bottom of the page to generate your report. Once the report is generated you'll then have the option to download it as a pdf, print or email the report. Code of Virginia Title 19.2. Criminal Procedure Chapter 21.1. Compensating Victims of Crime 10/3/2026 § 19.2-368.5:2 . Effect of filing a claim; stay of debt collection activities by health care providers. A. Whenever a person files a claim under this chapter, all health care providers, as defined in § 8.01-581.1 that have been given notice of a pending claim, shall refrain from all debt collection activities relating to medical treatment received by the person in connection with such claim until an award is made on the claim or until a claim is determined to be noncompensable pursuant to § 19.2-368.11:1 . The statute of limitations for collection of such debt shall be tolled during the period in which the applicable health care provider is required to refrain from debt collection activities hereunder. B. For the purpose of this section, "debt collection activities" means repeatedly calling or writing to the claimant and threatening either to turn the matter over to a debt collection agency or to an attorney for collection, enforcement or filing of other process. The term shall not include routine billing or inquiries about the status of the claim. 2005, c. 683 . The chapters of the acts of assembly referenced in the historical citation at the end of this section may not constitute a comprehensive list of such chapters and may exclude chapters whose provisions have expired.