Eligibility | Virginia Victims Fund Skip to main content WebFile/Provider Login Forms Debtors - Make Payments News & Notices Breadcrumbs picture_as_pdf Download Eligibility PDF Eligibility for expense reimbursement through VVF funding depends on several statutory requirements. For a claim application to be found eligible, all the requirements below must be met. Requirement #1: Crime Stipulations Crimes must occur in Virginia or in a location where no other compensation program exists. ELIGIBLE CRIMES: Abduction (must result in physical injury) Arson (must result in physical injury) Battery (physical touch must cause injury) Brandishing firearm - 3rd or subsequent (requires conviction and must result in physical injury) Carjacking (must result in physical injury) Child abuse (must result in physical injury) Breaking and Entering (must result in physical injury) Robbery (must result in physical injury) Sexual Abuse (minors and adults) (must result in physical injury for misdemeanors or emotional injury for felonies) Rape, sodomy, object sexual penetration Sexual battery ( Va. Code § 18.2-67.4 ) Sexual molestation ( Va. Code § 18.2-67.10 section 6) Stalking (must result in emotional injury) ( Va. Code § 18.2-60.3 ) Terrorism (must result in physical injury) Violent felonies with emotional or physical injuries listed Va. Code § 17.1805 (C) Felony violation of a protective order (3rd w/in 20 years) (requires conviction) Driving while intoxicated (DWI) with physical injuries Va. Code § 18.2-266 or Va. Code § 18.2-51.4 (requires conviction) Felony hit and run with physical injuries from Va. Code§ 46.2-894 (requires conviction) INELIGIBLE CRIMES: Misdemeanor assault (assaults do not have physical contact) Misdemeanor hit and run Misdemeanor brandishing a firearm Property crimes, such as: Destruction of property Larceny/theft/stealing Fraud or financial crimes Forgery Uttering Trespassing Medical malpractice Unauthorized practice/license crimes Elder abuse (neglect, power of attorney, fraud, etc.) Death by suicide Natural or accidental deaths Dog bites Shooting into occupied dwelling with no injuries Traffic violations, such as: Reckless driving Failure to yield Disregard stop light Traffic accidents causing injuries Misdemeanor hit and run Reckless driving Failure to yield Disregard stoplight Crime not occurring in Virginia If you do not see a crime listed on this page, please contact VVF . Requirement #2: Victim Stipulations Victims and claimants must meet stipulations in order to qualify for VVF funding. The Victim Did not contribute to, provoke, instigate or partake in the act leading to their injuries, Was not involved in any illegal activity at the time of the crime, and For crimes occurring up until June 30, 2025, victims must cooperate with law-enforcement agencies and the courts, or For crimes occurring on or after July 1, 2025, cooperation with law-enforcement, while still encouraged, is not required for program eligibility. Who can apply? Victims who suffered physical injury as a result of a criminal act or Victims who suffered emotional injury as the result of a violent felony described in Va. Code § 17.1-805 (C) or Anyone who paid or is responsible for paying the victim’s funeral bill or A surviving spouse, parent, grandparent, sibling, grandchild or child of a victim who died as a direct result of a criminal act. If a deceased victim had dependents for whom they were legally responsible, the dependents may be eligible for loss of support benefits and/or survivor grief counseling. For loss of support benefits for a minor victim, please provide a copy of the statement from Social Security showing the benefits approved. You may submit the claim now and provide Social Security documentation once you receive it. Limitations If a victim is 18 years or older, and they are not incapacitated, they must file their own application, even if they were a minor at the time of the crime. If the victim was under the age of 18, the victim has until 10 years after their 18th birthday or legal emancipation to file a claim. If a victim is a minor or an incapacitated adult, the clamant must be a natural parent or legal guardian. If the claimant is not the parent, documentation to prove guardianship is required. Hospitals, physicians, and funeral homes cannot complete applications on behalf of their patients or clients. Not Eligible Law enforcement officers engaged in performance of their duties A person who is criminally responsible for the crime upon which a claim is based, or an accomplice or accessory of such person A person is not eligible if they are a criminally responsible person who would unjustly benefit from an award Requirement #3: Injury Stipulations There must by medical evidence proving physical or emotional injury as a direct result of the crime. Why? The program requires an injury needing medical attention. Physical Injuries are usually eligible. Emotional Injuries due to a crime listed in Va. Code § 17.1805 (C) may be eligible. If the injuries are not due to a listed crime, the claim is not eligible. (The program is for victims suffering emotional injuries from this category of violent crimes.) Requirement #4: Expense Stipulations Please note: Caps are based on the policy effective at the time of the crime. Physical or Emotional Injury Claims: Medical Expenses: Payment or reimbursement for crime-related expenses with a hospital, physician, mental health provider, dentist or other medical provider. Mileage - Minor Victims Only: Reimbursement for mileage to/from medical treatment, criminal investigations and court proceedings. (Minor victims only.) Moving Expenses: Reimbursement for the cost of professional movers, rental moving equipment, temporary storage, rent and/or loss of security deposit. (Dated/signed contracts required.) (up to $2,000) (Written justification is required for this expense.) Prostheses: Reimbursement for the replacement of eyeglasses, hearing aids, dentures, false limbs or other medically necessary aids. Home Security: Reimbursement of the purchase and installation of home security measures. This expense is based on an immediate need for safety; therefore, the system should be installed within thirty (30) days after the crime. (up to $1,000) Loss of Wages: Replacement of lost wages for the victim, who could not work because of the crime-related injury, as verified by a medical provider. (Paid at two-thirds of the victim’s average weekly wage.) Temporary Lodging: Limited situations only, when the physical safety of the victim would be risked by staying in the dwelling where the crime occurred. Receipts must be in the victim’s name. Temporary lodging must begin immediately following the crime and must not exceed 30 days. More information is available when the applicant is deemed eligible. Domestic Loss of Support: Compensation for the victims to cover the loss of financial support resulting from the offender’s removal from the home, in cases where the offender has a legal duty to provide support. One-time payment not to exceed thirteen (13) weeks. Prescriptions: Prescriptions for treatment of injuries/conditions caused by the crime may be reimbursed. The applicant must provide copies of receipts for prescriptions. Prescription receipts should include the name of the medication, the name of the prescribing doctor, the date filled and the amount charged (i.e., “bag tags”). Homicide Claims: Grief Counseling: Grief counseling for a surviving spouse, parent, grandparent, sibling, grandchild or child of a victim of a crime who died as a direct result of the crime. (up to $5,000) Homicide Loss of Support: Financial support for the care of deceased victims’ legal dependents. Crime Scene Clean-Up: Coverage for the cleaning of items contaminated by biological materials during the commission of a crime, excluding personal property. Written justification is needed for this expense. (up to $1,000) Funeral or Burial Expenses: Payment/reimbursement for the victim’s burial, cremation and/or headstone and/or plot. (Stipulations apply.) (up to $10,000) Requirement #5: Filing Timeline Stipulations State law determines how long a victim has to file a claim with VVF. The date of the crime will determine how long the victim has to file a claim with VVF based on the law in effect at the time. Crimes committed between July 1, 1998 and June 30, 2001 The deadline to file a claim is one year from the crime. This deadline may be extended for good cause shown if the Commonwealth’s Attorney sends written notification that the crime is being investigated as a result of newly discovered evidence. In such instances, only expenses and loss of earnings that accrue after the date of the newly discovered evidence may be eligible for reimbursement. Crimes committed on July 1, 2001 through June 30, 2025 The deadline to file a claim is one year from the crime. This deadline may be extended for good cause shown if the the claimants file a written explanation of the delayed filing. Crimes committed on and after July 1, 2025 The deadline to file a claim is three years from the crime. Subtract Collateral Resources If all the above requirements are met, collateral resources are examined and applied to claims before an award may be made. Collateral resources include: Insurance 3rd party payers Financial assistance offered by hospitals Life/burial insurance, if applicable Restitution orders Minimum Award Requirement: After collateral resources are applied, the remaining award must be more than $100.