Contact Us | Virginia Victims Fund Skip to main content WebFile/Provider Login Forms Debtors - Make Payments News & Notices Breadcrumbs person In-Person Assistance In-person assistance is available by appointment only.  Please email us at appointment@vvf.virginia.gov with your name, telephone number and what type of assistance is needed.  Someone from our office will contact you within two business days. mail By Mail Please send all postal mail to: Virginia Victims Fund PO Box 26927 Richmond VA 23261 phone By Phone 800-552-4007 Customer service is available to answer calls Monday through Friday, except on state and federal holidays. If you call during non-business hours or are prompted to leave a message, please leave a detailed message that includes your name, phone number, and claim number. Calls will be returned as quickly as possible. format_list_numbered Submit Documentation SAFE Payment Program WebFile is the preferred method of submitting documents. U.S. Mail is also acceptable. Please note that VVF is no longer accepting documents via email for security reasons. Applications and Claims for Victims of Crime WebFile is the preferred method of submitting documents. U.S. Mail is also acceptable. Please note that VVF is no longer accepting documents via email for security reasons. Unclaimed Restitution Applications U.S. Mail Fax: 804-823-6905 In-person drop-off at the Clerk’s office Please note that VVF is no longer accepting documents via email for security reasons. Debtors U.S. Mail Fax: 804-823-6905 In-person drop-off at the Clerk’s Office Providers WebFile is the preferred method of submitting documents. U.S. Mail Fax: 804-823-6905 In-person drop-off at the Clerk’s Office Please note that VVF is no longer accepting documents via email for security reasons. contact_support Crime Victim Ombudsman To reach the Crime Victim Ombudsman : Toll-Free Line: (800) 552-4007 This is not a hotline. If you need emergency assistance, dial 911. Email: CICFOmbudsman@vvf.virginia.gov medical_information Medical Providers Seeking Status of Payment Providers seeking status updates on claims for their patients should use WebFile . upload_file Assistance with WebFile Please visit the VVF WebFile page for information and guidance material about WebFile. paid SAFE Payment Program To contact the SAFE Payment Program: Call: 800-552-4007 Email: SAFE@vvf.virginia.gov Fax: 804-823-6907 mail Mailing List Click here to sign up for emails with updates and announcements for the VVF program. VVF uses MailChimp and other platforms to share updates and announcements. Outreach to Victim Witness Program is also made via email to directors of each program. public Website Assistance For technical questions or difficulties with this website: Email: webmaster@workcomp.virginia.gov