§ 19.2-368.12. Awards not subject to execution or attachment; apportionment; reductions Session Information Bills & Resolutions State Budget Virginia Law Reports to the General Assembly Virginia Law Select Search Type All Code of Virginia Administrative Code Constitution Charters Authorities Compacts Uncodified Acts Code of Virginia Table of Contents » Title 19.2. Criminal Procedure » Chapter 21.1. Compensating Victims of Crime » § 19.2-368.12. Awards not subject to execution or attachment; apportionment; reductions Creating a Report: Check the sections you'd like to appear in the report, then use the "Create Report" button at the bottom of the page to generate your report. Once the report is generated you'll then have the option to download it as a pdf, print or email the report. Code of Virginia Title 19.2. Criminal Procedure Chapter 21.1. Compensating Victims of Crime 10/3/2026 § 19.2-368.12 . Awards not subject to execution or attachment; apportionment; reductions. A. No award made pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to execution or attachment other than for expenses resulting from the injury which is the basis for the claim. B. If there are two or more persons entitled to an award as a result of the death of a person which is the direct result of a crime, the award shall be apportioned among the claimants. C. In determining the amount of an award, the Commission shall determine whether, because of his conduct, the victim of such crime contributed to the infliction of his injury, and the Commission shall reduce the amount of the award or reject the claim altogether, in accordance with such determination; provided, however, that the Commission may disregard for this purpose the responsibility of the victim for his own injury where the record shows that such responsibility was attributable to efforts by the victim to prevent a crime or an attempted crime from occurring in his presence, or to apprehend a person who had committed a crime in his presence or had, in fact, committed a felony. 1976, c. 605; 1977, c. 215; 1989, c. 335. The chapters of the acts of assembly referenced in the historical citation at the end of this section may not constitute a comprehensive list of such chapters and may exclude chapters whose provisions have expired. Virginia Law Library The Code of Virginia, Constitution of Virginia, Charters, Authorities, Compacts and Uncodified Acts are available in both PDF and CSV formats. Helpful Resources Virginia Code Commission Virginia Register of Regulations U.S. Constitution For Developers The Virginia Law website data is available via a web service.