Application
Instructions

Expenses
Not
Considered

Physical/
Emotional Dependents Offender
Injuries

Victim/ Applicant

Crime Information/
Reporting Information

Please read all instructions thoroughly before completing the application.

THE CRIME:
Committed in Virginia, or a country where Virginia residents are not eligible for compensation.
Promptly reported to proper authorities.
For crimes committed on or after July 1, 2025, the following factors will be considered:
Police records,
The victim’s physical, mental, emotional and family situation (Claimants must include a written
explanation of these factors with their application,) and
The existence of a permanent protective order issued by a court where the victim and offender
of the crime are the relevant parties.
For crimes occurring between July 1, 1998 and June 30, 2025, the following factors will be
considered:
Police records must show that the victim reported the crime to proper authorities within 120
hours (5 days), unless there is a good cause for the delay. Victims should include a written
explanation of the delayed reporting in their application.

THE VICTIM:
Did not contribute to, provoke, instigate or partake in the act leading to their injuries,
Was not involved in any illegal activity at the time of the crime, and
For crimes occurring up until June 30, 2025, victims must cooperate with law-enforcement agencies
and the courts, or
For crimes occurring on or after July 1, 2025, cooperation with law-enforcement, while still encouraged,
is not required for program eligibility.

WHO CAN APPLY?
Victims who suffered physical injury as a result of a criminal act or
Victims who suffered emotional injury as the result of a violent felony described in Va. Code § 17.1805(C) or
Anyone who paid or is responsible for paying the victim’s funeral bill or
A surviving spouse, parent, grandparent, sibling, grandchild or child of a victim who died as a direct
result of a criminal act.

Please add any known information about the offender and whether any restitution has been ordered by a
court. For some claims, information about the court decision is necessary to complete the claim.
If a deceased victim had dependents for whom they were legally responsible, the dependents may be
eligible for loss of support benefits and/or survivor grief counseling. For loss of support benefits for a
minor victim, please provide a copy of the statement from Social Security showing the benefits approved.
You may submit the claim now and provide Social Security documentation once you receive it.

Victims who are physically injured or emotionally injured as a result of violent crimes listed in Virginia
Code § 17.1-805 (C) may be eligible. Eligible claimants must submit proof of physical and/or emotional
injuries. Proof includes health records detailing a physical and/or emotional injury.
EXPENSES NOT CONSIDERED:
Pain and suffering or property loss,
Injuries resulting from vehicular accidents except in certain circumstances,
Attorney fees,
Missed doctor’s appointments.

EXPENSES CONSIDERED: (Caps are based on the policy effective at the time of the crime.)
Physical or Emotional Injury Claims:
Medical Expenses

Payment or reimbursement for crime-related expenses with a hospital, physician, mental health provider, dentist or other
medical provider.

Mileage - Minor Victims Only

Reimbursement for mileage to/from medical treatment, criminal investigations and court proceedings. (Minor victims only.)

Moving Expenses

Reimbursement for the cost of professional movers, rental moving equipment, temporary storage, rent and/or loss of
security deposit. (Dated/signed contracts required.) (≤$2,000) (Written justification is required for this expense.)

Prostheses

Reimbursement for the replacement of eyeglasses, hearing aids, dentures, false limbs or other medically necessary aids.

Considered Expenses

Home Security

Reimbursement of the purchase and installation of home security measures. This expense is based on an immediate need
for safety; therefore, the system should be installed within thirty (30) days after the crime. (≤$1,000)

Loss of Wages

Replacement of lost wages for the victim, who could not work because of the crime-related injury, as verified by a medical
provider. (Paid at two-thirds of the victim’s average weekly wage.)

Temporary Lodging

Limited situations only, when the physical safety of the victim would be risked by staying in the dwelling where the crime
occurred. Receipts must be in the victim’s name. Temporary lodging must begin immediately following the crime and must
not exceed 30 days. More information is available when the applicant is deemed eligible.

Domestic Loss of Support

Compensation for the victims to cover the loss of financial support resulting from the offender’s removal from the home, in
cases where the offender has a legal duty to provide support. One-time payment not to exceed thirteen (13) weeks.

Prescriptions

Prescriptions for treatment of injuries/conditions caused by the crime may be reimbursed. The applicant must provide
copies of receipts for prescriptions. Prescription receipts should include the name of the medication, the name of the
prescribing doctor, the date filled and the amount charged (i.e., “bag tags”).

Homicide Claims:
Grief Counseling

Grief counseling for a surviving spouse, parent, grandparent, sibling, grandchild or child of a victim of a crime who died as a
direct result of the crime. (≤$5,000)

Homicide Loss of Support

Financial support for the care of deceased victims’ legal dependents.

Crime Scene Clean-Up

Coverage for the cleaning of items contaminated by biological materials during the commission of a crime, excluding
personal property. Written justification is needed for this expense. (≤$1,000.)

Funeral or Burial Expenses

Returning the
Application

Insurance &
Collateral Resources

Payment/reimbursement for the victim’s burial, cremation and/or headstone and/or plot. (Stipulations apply.) (≤$10,000)

Please add all known information about insurance. Insurance, restitution, civil lawsuit proceeds and other
collateral resources will reduce the amount of reimbursements.
Medicaid/Medicare information, if applicable;
If not covered by insurance and the victim sought treatment in a hospital, you must apply for
Charity Care through the hospital and send VVF a copy of that decision.
Auto insurance, if applicable;
Life/Burial insurance information, if applicable.

For help with the application, please contact your local Victim/Witness Program, which can
electronically file your application, or contact the Fund at info@virginiavictimsfund.org or 800-5524007. All fields must be completed.
Submit application to P.O. Box 26927, Richmond, VA 23261 or (fax) 804-823-6905.
Applicants should attach all receipts, records and documents supporting requested expenses and
continue doing so for ongoing expenses. Healthcare providers are prohibited by Virginia Code § 19.2368.5:2 from debt collection activities against claimants. Once deemed eligible, claimants should
provide copies of the Fund’s eligibility letter to healthcare providers.

Application
SECTION A - VICTIM INFORMATION
Victim’s First Name

Victim’s Middle Name

Victim’s Last Name

☐ Check if no SS#

Victim’s Social Security No.

Gender: ☐
MaleLast
☐ Name
Female ☐ Other
Victim’s

Victim Information

Marital Status

☐ Divorced ☐ Married ☐ Separated ☐ Unknown ☐ Unmarried ☐ Widowed
☐ Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander
☐ African American/Black
Ethnicity
☐ American Indian/Alaska Native ☐ Other
This information is for
☐ Unknown
☐ Asian
statistical purposes only and
☐ White/Caucasian
☐ Hispanic/ Latino
collected for a financial
federal grant.
☐ Multiple Races
Street Address

Apt. No.
Phone No.

City, State, Zip

Date of Birth

Date of Death (if homicide)

Did the victim have a pre-existing condition (physical or emotional) prior to the crime? ☐ Yes ☐ No

How is the victim
related to the
offender?

☐ Acquaintance
☐ Child
☐ Grandparent

☐ Other
☐ Parent
☐ Sibling

☐ Significant Other
☐ Spouse
☐ Unrelated

Who referred
you to VVF?

☐ Commonwealth Atty
☐ Friend
☐ Funeral Home
☐ Internet

☐ Media
☐ Medical Provider
☐ Other
☐ Other Gov’t Agency

☐ Police Dept.
☐ SAFE Coordinator
☐ Victim/Witness

SECTION B - APPLICANT INFORMATION

Please provide all requested information about the person submitting the application, if different from the victim.

Applicant

Applicant’s First Name

Applicant’s Last Name

Applicant’s Middle Name

☐ Check here if no SS#

Applicant’s Social Security No.

How is the
applicant related to
the victim?

☐ Acquaintance
☐ Child
☐ Grandparent

☐ Other
☐ Parent
☐ Sibling

☐ Significant Other
☐ Spouse
☐ Unrelated

Street Address

Apt. No.

City, State, Zip

Phone No.

Date of Birth

Offender

SECTION C - OFFENDER INFORMATION
Offender’s First Name
Social Security No.

Offender’s Middle Name

☐ Check if no SS#

Has a court ordered restitution to the victim? ☐ Yes ☐ No

Offender’s Last Name
Date of Birth
Amount, if known

1

SECTION D - CRIME INFORMATION
Street Address Where Crime Occurred

Date of Crime

Crime

City Where Crime Occurred

Type of
Crime:

State Where Crime Occurred

☐ Abduction
☐ Arson - Fatal
☐ Arson - Non-Fatal
☐ Assault
☐ Assault - Child Abuse
☐ Breaking & Entering
☐ DUI - Assault*

☐ DUI - Homicide*
☐ Felony Hit & Run - Assault*
☐ Felony Hit & Run - Homicide*
☐ Homicide
☐ Human Trafficking: Sex/Labor
☐ Other
☐ Robbery

Zip Where Crime Occurred

☐ Robbery - Carjacking
☐ Sexual Crime - Adult
☐ Sexual Crime - Child
☐ Stalking
☐ Terrorism - Assault
☐ Terrorism - Homicide

*Conviction orders are needed for these crimes to be eligible.
Was the crime committed at work (your place of employment) or while you were working?
☐ Yes ☐ No
(If yes) Employer’s Name

Type of
Victimization:

☐ Bullying
☐ Domestic/Family Violence

☐ Elder Abuse
☐ Hate Crime

☐ Mass Violence

SECTION E - REPORTING INFORMATION Attach a separate sheet if more space is necessary.

Reporting

Was the crime reported to proper authorities within 120 hours? ☐ Yes ☐ No
If not, describe the victim’s mental, physical, emotional and family situation that impacted reporting.

Date crime was reported

Investigating law enforcement agency

Police Report Number, if known

Is there a permanent protective order for the victim and offender? ☐ Yes ☐ No

(Attach if yes.)

Injuries

SECTION F - PHYSICAL AND/OR EMOTIONAL INJURIES

If your application is deemed eligible, you must provide proof of a physical injury or proof of emotional injury when the crime is an eligible violent
felony. Not all additional expenses are eligible for reimbursement; see instructions and website for additional information.

☐ Physical Injury
Emotional Injury
☐ Emotional Injury

Physician’s Name

Physician’s Addresss
Physician’s Addresss

Physician’s Name

Physician’s Addresss

2

Dependents
Expenses

SECTION G- DEPENDENTS Please attach additional dependents and requested information separately.
Dependent 1

Relationship to Dependent 1

Dependent 2

Relationship to Dependent 2

PhoneDate of
Number
Birth
Date of Birth

Social Security No.

Social Security No.

SECTION H - EXPENSES

Not all expense categories are available; see instructions and website for additional information. Check all that apply.

☐ Medical Expenses
☐ Grief Counseling
☐ Funeral or Burial Expenses
☐ Mileage

☐ Moving Expenses
☐ Crime Scene Clean-Up
☐ Prostheses
☐ Homicide Loss of Support

☐ Home Security
☐ Prescriptions
☐ Loss of Wages
☐ Temporary Lodging
☐ Domestic Loss of Support

Providers

SECTION I - MEDICAL PROVIDERS

Please list the name and address of medical providers who gave crime-related treatment. Attach a list of additional providers and attach
copies
of detailed,
itemized billing statements. Sending providers’ statements will speed up claims processing times.
Name
of Employer

Phone Number

Name of Provider 1

Employer Address

Address of Provider 1

Apt. #

Name of Provider 2

Address of Provider 2

Name of Provider 3

Address of Provider 3

Name of Provider 4

Address of Provider 4

Insurance and Collateral Resources

SECTION J - INSURANCE AND COLLATERAL RESOURCES
Are the victim’s crime-related expenses covered by health
insurance, Medicaid, Medicare or any other collateral resource?

☐ Yes

☐ No

If the victim’s crime-related injuries are not covered by insurance,
Medicaid or another collateral resource, did they apply for charity care?

☐ Yes

☐ No

Was an automobile involved in the crime?

☐ Yes

☐ No

If you are applying for reimbursement of funeral-related expenses,
was the victim covered under any life and/or burial insurance?

☐ Yes

☐ No

Is there (or will there be) a civil suit filed against the offender?

☐ Yes

☐ No

If the victim does not have health insurance and sought treatment from a hospital, you must contact your health provider’s finance
department and apply for charity care assistance. VVF will not make a decision on reimbursing health expenses without a copy of
the charity care decision.

More information may be needed if the application is accepted.

Please note that if the funeral bill has been paid or is paid at any time during the VVF claim process, detailed receipts or copies of
canceled checks are required to consider reimbursement to anyone other than the funeral home.

Please list other collateral resources available. (ex: homeowner’s and other insurance, disability
benefits, sick leave, federal disability, etc.)

3

Applicant Responsiblities & Authorizations
Applications are not accepted unless this form is signed by the applicant.

Eligibility
I hereby acknowledge that the Virginia Victims Fund (hereinafter “VVF”) will only award compensation if all
eligibility requirements are met. Eligibility includes eligible crimes, eligible victims, eligible claimants, eligible
expenses, etc.
Documentation
I understand that while VVF will try to obtain documents on my behalf, it is my responsibility to provide all
necessary documentation to the Fund within 180 days from the date the application is deemed eligible and failure
to do so may result in a denial of my claim.
Awards
I acknowledge that I am financially responsible for debts incurred because of the underlying crime.
I understand that VVF is a reimbursement-based program and awards are based on available funding.
I understand that VVF is a payor of last resort, and I agree to pursue all available collateral resources before
seeking an award from VVF.
I understand that in some cases, VVF may issue an award for my benefit directly to the professional entity to
which I owe money because of the crime.
I understand that any benefits awarded will be reduced by any monies I receive from another source as a result
of this crime, including insurance, restitution, and civil suit settlements.
Subrogation
I affirm that I have not received any compensation as a result of this crime. I acknowledge that if I recover any
money by legal judgment, settlement, or restitution resulting from this crime, I will be responsible for repaying
some or all amounts awarded to me, or on my behalf, by VVF. As such, I hereby agree that in consideration of an
award by VVF, I assign, transfer and subrogate all claims, interests and rights of action that I may have against other
parties or authorities up to the amount awarded by VVF.
Authorization to Release Records
I authorize any hospital, physician, counselor, funeral director, or other person who attended or examined the
victim and any municipal authority, employer or union, insurer, social service bureau, Social Security office, or any
other person, firm, agency or organization to furnish to VVF (a division of the Workers’ Compensation Commission),
or its representatives, any information requested, including tax data and prior police records, required to complete
the claim for benefits. A photocopy of this authorization shall be considered as effective and valid as the original.
This authorization is for the collection of information related only to this claim.
I authorize VVF to disclose all information associated with my claim to the Victim Witness Assistance Program in
the locality where the underlying crime occurred, except those documents legally protected from dissemination.
Pursuant to Virginia law (including Va. Code §§ 8.01-4.3 and 18.2-434), I declare, verify and attest under penalty of
perjury that the foregoing is true and correct, and that I have read and understand my responsibilities and program
requirements and limitations.

Applicant’s Printed Name

Applicant’s Signature

Date

Please note that the Criminal Injuries Compensation Fund (Virginia Victims Fund) is a division of the
Virginia Workers’ Compensation Commission, which is exempt from HIPAA, and for HIPAA purposes, the
Fund is a “payer” to which disclosures may be made without prior authorization.

4

