§ 19.2-368.4. Persons eligible for awards Session Information Bills & Resolutions State Budget Virginia Law Reports to the General Assembly Virginia Law Select Search Type All Code of Virginia Administrative Code Constitution Charters Authorities Compacts Uncodified Acts Code of Virginia Table of Contents » Title 19.2. Criminal Procedure » Chapter 21.1. Compensating Victims of Crime » § 19.2-368.4. Persons eligible for awards Creating a Report: Check the sections you'd like to appear in the report, then use the "Create Report" button at the bottom of the page to generate your report. Once the report is generated you'll then have the option to download it as a pdf, print or email the report. Code of Virginia Title 19.2. Criminal Procedure Chapter 21.1. Compensating Victims of Crime 10/3/2026 § 19.2-368.4 . Persons eligible for awards. A. The following persons shall be eligible for awards pursuant to this chapter unless the award would directly and unjustly benefit the person who is criminally responsible: 1. A victim of a crime or the parent or guardian of a minor who is the victim of a crime. 2. A surviving spouse, parent, grandparent, sibling, grandchild who is alive at the time of the commission of the crime, or child, including posthumous children, of a victim of a crime who died as a direct result of such crime. 3. Any person, except a law-enforcement officer engaged in the performance of his duties, who is injured or killed while trying to prevent a crime or an attempted crime from occurring in his presence, or trying to apprehend a person who had committed a crime in his presence or had, in fact, committed a felony. 4. A surviving spouse, parent, grandparent, sibling, grandchild who is alive at the time of the commission of the crime, or child, including posthumous children, of any person who dies as a direct result of trying to prevent a crime or attempted crime from occurring in his presence, or trying to apprehend a person who had committed a crime in his presence or had, in fact, committed a felony. 5. Any other person legally dependent for his principal support upon a victim of crime who dies as a result of such crime, or legally dependent for his principal support upon any person who dies as a direct result of trying to prevent a crime or an attempted crime from occurring in his presence or trying to apprehend a person who had committed a crime in his presence or had, in fact, committed a felony. B. A person who is criminally responsible for the crime upon which a claim is based, or an accomplice or accessory of such person, shall not be eligible to receive an award with respect to such claim. C. A resident of Virginia who is the victim of a crime occurring outside Virginia and any other person as defined in subsection A who is injured as a result of a crime occurring outside Virginia shall be eligible for an award pursuant to this chapter if (i) the person would be eligible for benefits had the crime occurred in Virginia and (ii) the state, country or territory in which the crime occurred does not have a crime victims' compensation program deemed eligible pursuant to the provisions of the federal Victims of Crime Act and does not compensate nonresidents. 1976, c. 605; 1977, c. 215; 1978, c. 210; 1981, c. 592; 1984, c. 747; 1985, c. 446; 1986, c. 422; 1988, c. 406; 1990, c. 550; 1996, c. 86 ; 2002, c. 665 ; 2020, c. 446 . The chapters of the acts of assembly referenced in the historical citation at the end of this section may not constitute a comprehensive list of such chapters and may exclude chapters whose provisions have expired. Virginia Law Library The Code of Virginia, Constitution of Virginia, Charters, Authorities, Compacts and Uncodified Acts are available in both PDF and CSV formats. Helpful Resources Virginia Code Commission Virginia Register of Regulations U.S. Constitution For Developers The Virginia Law website data is available via a web service.