POLICIES
of
THE VIRGINIA VICTIMS FUND
(officially Criminal Injuries Compensation Fund)
Post Office Box 26927
Richmond, VA 23261
(800) 552-4007

a division of
THE VIRGINIA WORKERS’ COMPENSATION COMMISSION
333 East Franklin Street
Richmond, VA 23219
(877) 664-2566

Revised and Approved September 2025

TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION… ......................................................................................................... 3
DEFINITIONS… .............................................................................................................. 5
CONTACTS AND INFORMATION… ........................................................................... 6
WHO MAY RECEIVE BENEFITS… ............................................................................. 8
WHO MAY FILE A CLAIM… ...................................................................................... 11
WHEN A CLAIM MUST BE FILED… .........................................................................12
WHERE A CLAIM MUST BE FILED… ...................................................................... 14
CRITERIA FOR AN AWARD… ................................................................................... 15
GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OR REDUCTION OF BENEFITS… ............................... 20

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 2

INTRODUCTION
On July 1, 1977, the Virginia Compensating Victims of Crime Act was enacted to
compensate victims who suffer injuries as a result of a crime (§ 19.2-368.1 et seq., Code of
Virginia) (hereafter “the Act”). Benefits are limited to a total of $35,000 and are payable for
medical expenses, wage loss, moving expenses, crime scene clean-up, counseling costs, and
other expenses incurred by or on behalf of a victim. In homicide cases, funeral or burial
expenses are payable up to $10,000, eligible relatives may receive survivors’ counseling,
and dependent survivors may receive compensation for loss of support from the victim.
This program is administered by the Virginia Workers' Compensation Commission
through the Criminal Injuries Compensation Fund (hereafter, Virginia Victims Fund). It is
funded through fees levied against individuals convicted of felonies and misdemeanors in the
Courts of the Commonwealth [See § 19.2-368.18 (B) of the Act] and through federal grants under
the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA). [See Victims of Crime Act of 1984, Pub. L. No. 104-235, codified
at 42 U.S.C. §§ 10601-10605, 18 U.S.C. § 3771.] The program prioritizes awards pursuant to Va.

Code § 19.2-368.11:1 (A), (B), and (D), which distinguishes between mandatory and
discretionary expenses. Reimbursement of discretionary expenses is contingent upon
available funding.
As of July 2008, the Fund also administers the Sexual Assault Forensic Exam
(SAFE) Payment Program for the Commonwealth. Funds are transferred from the Supreme
Court for this purpose and the policies governing SAFE payments are approved by the
Commission per §19.2-368.3(1)(i) of the Code in a separate manual. § 19.2-368.3 (1)(i)
As of July 2018, the Fund was mandated to collect and disburse unclaimed
restitution pursuant to § 19.2-368.3 (9) of the Code of Virginia. Policies and procedures
for the receipt, collection, and disbursement of unclaimed restitution to victims of crime
VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 3

is held in a separate manual. § 19.2-368.3 (9)(10)
The Virginia Victims Fund issues this Policies and Procedures manual under the
authority, direction, and guidance of the Workers’ Compensation Commission. §19.2-368.3
When administering the Fund and making claims determinations, this policy manual, the
SAFE payment policy manual, the Unclaimed Restitution policy manual, the Act, and the
grant rules of the Victims’ of Crime Act [Victims of Crime Act of 1984, Pub. L. No. 104-235,
codified at 42 U.S.C. §§ 10601-10605, 18 U.S.C. § 3771], must all be considered.

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 4

DEFINITIONS
As used throughout these guidelines, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
“Act” shall mean the Compensating Victims of Crime Act, codified at § 19.2-368.1 et
seq., Code of Virginia;
“CA” shall refer to local Commonwealth’s Attorneys;
“Commission” shall mean the Virginia Workers’ Compensation Commission;
“DCJS” shall mean Department of Criminal Justice Services;
“Director” shall mean the Director of the Fund;
“Explanation of Benefits” shall mean the document that lists benefits paid and/or denied
for claims submitted to the insurance carrier (commonly referred to as “EOBs”);
“Full Commission” refers to the three legislatively appointed Commissioners of the
Commission;
“Fund” or “VVF” shall mean the Virginia Victims Fund (officially the Criminal Injuries
Compensation Fund);
“Itemized Billing Statement” shall mean the type of bill that shows the individual
charges for all procedures performed and services rendered to the patient;
“Medical Record” shall mean the written notes and reports concerning patients’
diagnoses, symptoms, course of treatment, and prognoses;
“Notice of Filing” shall mean a notification to medical and mental health providers
notifying them that a claim has been filed and that collection action may not be
taken against the victim/claimant until a claim decision has been made;
“VDEM” shall mean the Virginia Department of Emergency Management;
“VOCA” shall mean the Federal Victims of Crime Act;
“VWAP” or “VW” shall mean Victim/Witness Assistance Program or Victim/Witness;
“WebFile” shall mean the Fund’s online claim submission and management system that
is available to victim advocates and medical providers.

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 5

CONTACTS AND INFORMATION
(A)

THE VIRGINIA VICTIMS FUND
Claim forms and additional information may be obtained by calling or writing:

(B)

(1)

Telephone
(800) 552-4007 (toll-free)
(804) 823-6905 (fax)

(2)

Mailing Address
Virginia Victims Fund
Post Office Box 26927
Richmond, VA 23261

(3)

Website and E-mail
http://www.virginiavictimsfund.org
info@virginiavictimsfund.org

(4)

Fund Leadership
Shannon Dion, Director

THE VIRGINIA WORKERS’ COMPENSATION COMMISSION
The Workers’ Compensation Commission oversees the Virginia Victims Fund and
handles appeal requests. The Commission may be contacted as follows:
(1)

Telephone and Fax
(877) 664-2566 (toll-free)
(804) 367-6124 (fax)

(2)

Mailing Address
Virginia Workers’ Compensation Commission
333 East Franklin Street
Richmond, VA 23219

(3)

Commission Leadership
R. Ferrell Newman, Commissioner
Wesley G. Marshall, Commissioner
Robert A. Rapaport, Commissioner
Evelyn McGill, Executive Director
Jason Quattropani, Clerk

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 6

(C)

VICTIM/WITNESS ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

Almost all cities and counties in the Commonwealth are served by Victim/Witness
Assistance Programs. These programs generally assist victims of crimes occurring within
their service areas.
Victim/Witness programs are established and operated by local governments, and they
are usually associated with either the local Commonwealth’s Attorney’s office or the
local police department or sheriff’s office. The primary functions of VWAP are to
explain the criminal justice process to victims and witnesses of crime, to help victims and
/witnesses understand their rights, and to assist victims and witnesses with matters
concerning the arrest, trial, and incarceration of criminals.
Victim/Witness programs and law-enforcement officers are required by law to inform
victims of financial assistance that may be available to them as victims of crime, including
information about their possible right to file a claim for compensation from the Virginia
Victims Fund. § 19.2-11.01(A)(2)(a) Victim/Witness professionals often assist victims with
filing and perfecting their VVF claims, and they usually have VVF claim forms on hand.
In localities without a VW program, or in areas in which the VW program does not work
with criminal injuries claims, claimants can often contact the local Commonwealth's
Attorney or law-enforcement agency for information and claim forms for the Fund. For
help locating or contacting the VWAP in any locality in Virginia, please call the Fund at
(800) 552-4007 or the Victim Witness Assistance Network at (855) 4-HELP-VA. DCJS
maintains a directory of VW programs and other groups that assist victims. Please visit their
website at www.dcjs.virginia.gov.
Please note that because the Victim/Witness Assistance Programs are not part of the Fund
or the Commission, delivering documents to a VW program is not the same as delivering
them to the Fund. Victim/Witness programs can assist people with their claims with the
Fund. When documents are needed to support a claim or when a claimant needs
information about his claim, the Fund should be contacted directly, as indicated above.
Victim/Witness programs cannot guarantee eligibility or payment of expenses. These
claim and expense eligibility decisions cannot be made until completed claims are
received and investigated by the Fund.

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 7

WHO MAY RECEIVE BENEFITS
(A)

ELIGIBLE PERSONS
(1)

Crime Victims
(a) Any person who suffers personal physical injury or death as a direct
result of a crime. §§ 19.2-368.2 and 19.2-368.4(A)(1)
A crime is defined as:
. . . an act committed by any person in the Commonwealth of
Virginia which would constitute a crime as defined by the
Code of Virginia or at common law. However, no act
involving the operation of a motor vehicle which results in
injury shall constitute a crime for the purpose of this chapter
unless the injuries (i) were intentionally inflicted through the
use of such vehicle or (ii) resulted from a violation of § 18.251.4 or § 18.2-266 or from a felony violation of §46.2-894.
§ 19.2-368.2

(b) Any person who suffers personal emotional injury as a direct result of a
violent felony offense as defined in subsection C of §17.1-805, or
stalking as defined in §18.2-60.3, or robbery or abduction, attempted
robbery or abduction. §19.2-368.2
(c) Any victim as described in subsection D of § 19.2-327.18, Chapter
19.4 of Title 19.2 of the Code of Virginia.
(2)

“Good Samaritans”

Any person (except a law-enforcement officer engaged in the performance of his
duties) who suffers personal physical injury or death as a direct result of attempting
to prevent a crime from occurring in his presence or trying to apprehend a person
who (a) had committed a crime in his presence, or (b) had, in fact, committed a
felony. §§ 19.2-368.2 and 19.2-368.4(A)(3)
(3)

Specific Relatives of Deceased Victims

A surviving spouse, parent, grandparent, sibling, or child, including posthumous
children, of a victim of a crime who died as a direct result of such crime.
§ 19.2-368.4(A)(2)

“The term ‘child’ shall include a stepchild, a legally adopted child, a posthumous
child, and an acknowledged illegitimate child, but shall not include a married
child; and the term ‘parent’ shall include stepparents and parents by adoption.”
§ 65.2-515
VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 8

(4)

Relatives of Deceased “Good Samaritans”

A surviving spouse, parent, grandparent, sibling or child, including posthumous
children, of any person who dies as a direct result of trying to prevent a crime or
attempted crime from occurring in his presence, or trying to apprehend a person who
had committed a crime in his presence or who had, in fact, committed a felony.
§ 19.2-368.4(A)(4)

“The term ‘child’ shall include a stepchild, a legally adopted child, a posthumous
child, and an acknowledged illegitimate child, but shall not include a married
child; and the term ‘parent’ shall include stepparents and parents by adoption.”
§ 65.2-515

(5)

Legal Dependents

Any other person legally dependent for his principal support upon a victim of crime
who dies as a result of such crime or who dies as a direct result of trying to prevent a
crime or attempted crime from occurring in his presence, or trying to apprehend a
person who had committed a crime in his presence or had, in fact, committed a
felony. § 19.2-368.4(A)(5)
“The term ‘child’ shall include a stepchild, a legally adopted child, a posthumous
child, and an acknowledged illegitimate child, but shall not include a married
child; and the term ‘parent’ shall include stepparents and parents by adoption.”
§ 65.2-515

(6)

Individual taking responsibility for Funeral Expenses

Any person who pays expenses directly related to funeral or burial is eligible for
reimbursement. §19.2-368.11:1 (E)
(B)

INELIGIBLE PERSONS
(1)

Law Enforcement Personnel

Law-enforcement officers engaged in performance of their duties are not eligible for
awards from the Fund. § 19.2-368.4(A)(3) Officers who are injured (or family
members of officers who are killed) in the line of duty should contact the Workers’
Compensation Commission regarding possible eligibility for workers’ compensation
benefits.

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 9

(2)

Criminally Responsible Persons

A person who is criminally responsible for the crime upon which a claim is based, or
an accomplice or accessory of such person, shall not be eligible to receive an award
with respect to such claim. § 19.2-368.4(B)
(3)

Unjust Benefit

A person is not eligible if he is a criminally responsible person who would unjustly
benefit from an award. § 19.2-368.4(A)

WHO MAY FILE A CLAIM
(§ 19.2-368.5)
(A)

ELIGIBLE PERSONS

Any person eligible to receive benefits under § 19.2-368.4 and § 19.2-368.11(E) may file a
claim. For specifics concerning eligibility, see Who May Receive Benefits (pages 8-10).
(B)

MINORS

When the eligible person is a minor, a parent or guardian must file on their behalf. § 19.2368.5(A)

On occasion, a non-parent who has legal custody but not legal guardianship of a minor files
a claim for benefits on the minor’s behalf. In such a case, the Fund will accept the claim but
will only make payments up to $35,000 directly to service providers such as doctors and
counselors. The Fund cannot make payments directly to a legal custodian who is neither the
child’s natural parent nor his legal guardian. (Policy of the Commission, April 7, 1999)
Custodians may wish to seek legal guardianship through the courts. If the custodian is
unable to afford an attorney, he should contact local legal services organizations to see if he
qualifies for low-cost or free legal aid. Only the legal aid organizations can determine
whether claimants qualify for representation, whether the organizations handle legal
guardian appointment cases, and whether it is advisable or possible for any particular person
to seek appointment as a child’s legal guardian.
(C)

INCAPACITATED PERSONS

A guardian, conservator, or other individual authorized to administer the estate of an
incapacitated person who is eligible for benefits may file a claim on behalf of the
incapacitated person. § 19.2-368.5
VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 10

(D)

MULTIPLE CLAIMANTS

If a deceased victim has several relatives or dependents, each eligible person may file a
claim. However, all claims that arise from the death of the same individual will be
considered together. See Subsection A of § 19.2-368.6 The Court of Appeals has held that this
means if several relatives of one homicide victim file claims, the award will be apportioned
among the claimants.

WHEN A CLAIM MUST BE FILED
(§ 19.2-368.5)
(A)

GENERAL RULE

In general, for crimes occurring on or after July 1, 2025, claims must be filed no later
than three (3) years after the date of the crime.
For crimes committed between July 1, 2001 and June 30, 2025, claims must be filed no
later than one year after the date of crime, unless good cause is shown.
For crimes occurring between July 1, 1998, and July 1, 2001, victims could not file more
than two years past the date of the crime. Any claims for crimes occurring prior to July 1,
2001, will be returned to the claimant with an explanation for the return.
In cases where the crime was committed on or after July 1, 1977, and before July 1, 2001,
the Commission may, for good cause shown, extend the time for filing a claim if the
attorney for the Commonwealth submits written notice that the crime is being
investigated as a result of newly discovered evidence. The Commission will consider
only expenses that the claimant accrues after the date of newly discovered evidence as
stipulated in the written notification by the attorney for the Commonwealth.
(B)

WHEN THE VICTIM DIES

If the crime victim dies from a crime occurring on or after July 1, 2025, a claim must
be filed no later than three (3) years after the date of death.
If the crime victims dies from a crime occurring between July 1, 2001, and June 30,
2025, a claim must be filed no later than one (1) year after the date of death.
(C)

MINORS

If the claimant is a minor, the time for filing a claim is tolled as provided in subsection A of
§ 8.01-229. In general, the section provides that a minor must file his claim within one (1)
year after he is legally emancipated (see § 16.1-331) or reaches the age of majority,
whichever occurs first. Victims of child sexual assault may file up to ten years past the
date of their eighteenth birthday. See §19.2-368.5 (B)(iii)

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 11

(D)

INCAPACITATED PERSONS

Notwithstanding the provisions in Section A, if the victim is incapacitated, the time for
filing a claim is tolled as provided in subsection A of § 8.01-229. Generally, an
incapacitated person must file his claim within three (3) years after the incapacity is
removed. However, if a legal guardian or committee has been appointed, the claim
must be filed within three (3) years after the date of the crime or within one (1) year
after the appointment, whichever occurs later.
(E)

FORFEITURES

In a case involving claims made by a victim against profits of crime forfeited and held in
escrow pursuant to Chapter 21.1 of Title 19.2 (§ 19.2-368.1 et seq.), the claim shall be filed
within five years of the date of the order of forfeiture.
Any proceeds or profits received or to be received directly or indirectly, except property
that may be forfeited to the Commonwealth pursuant to §§ 19.2-386.15 through 19.2386.31, by a defendant or a transferee of that defendant from any source, as a direct or
indirect result of his crime or sentence, or the notoriety which such crime or sentence has
conferred upon him, shall be subject to a special order of escrow.
(F)

GOOD CAUSE FOR DELAY

In cases other than those involving minors, incapacitated persons, or claims against
forfeited property, upon good cause shown, the Commission in its discretion may extend
the time for filing. Written explanation as to why the claimant waited longer than one
year to file is required. This only applies to crimes occurring after July 1, 2001.

WHERE A CLAIM MUST BE FILED
(§19.2-368.5)
An application may be submitted via mail, fax, or in person. Victim advocates that have
been through specialized training may file via WebFile, the Fund’s online claims submission
system.
Virginia Victims Fund
Post Office Box 26927
Richmond, VA 23261
Fax: (804) 823-6905
The application constitutes an affidavit and is made under oath under penalties of perjury.
§ 19.2-368.16

Applications are available from Victim/Witness offices throughout the Commonwealth and
online at http://www.virginiavictimsfund.org.
All other documents in support of a claim can be accepted via fax at (804) 823-6905 or e-mail
at info@virginiavictimsfund.org.
VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 12

CRITERIA FOR AN AWARD
In order to make an award, the Commission must find that (A) a crime was committed;
(B) the crime resulted in personal physical or emotional injury to, or death of, the victim;
(C) the crime was promptly reported to law enforcement; (D) the claim was timely filed
with the Fund; (E) the victim's loss is compensable under the Act; (F) the claim has a
minimum value of $100; (G) the claimant is eligible under the Act; and (H) if the crime
did not occur in Virginia, the victim is a resident of Virginia who was (i) injured in
another state, country, or territory that does not compensate nonresident crime victims, or
(ii) injured or killed as a result of foreign terrorism. Each of these criteria is discussed
below. Payment of a forensic exam under the SAFE program is not a guarantee of
eligibility for the Fund.
(A)

A CRIME OCCURRED
(1)

Definition of Crime

In § 19.2-368.2, “crime” is defined as follows:
… an act committed by any person in the Commonwealth of Virginia
which would constitute a crime as defined by the Code of Virginia or
at common law. However, no act involving the operation of a motor
vehicle which results in injury shall constitute a crime for the
purpose of this chapter unless the injuries (i) were intentionally
inflicted through the use of such vehicle or (ii) resulted from a
violation of § 18.2-51.4 or 18.2-266 or from a felony violation of
§ 46.2-894.
(2)
Lack of Arrest or Conviction
It is not necessary that the alleged criminal be apprehended, prosecuted for, or
convicted of any crime based upon the incident. Claims shall be investigated and
determined regardless of whether a defendant has been arrested, tried, convicted,
acquitted, or found not guilty of a crime. § 19.2-368.6(C) § 19.2-368.10(3). If a case
is dropped, nolle prosequi, or the offender is found not guilty, the Fund must be
advised of the reason for this action to ensure that the victim cooperated with all
prosecution efforts.
(3)

Motor Vehicle Injuries

The definition of “crime” provides that no act involving the operation of a motor
vehicle that results in injury shall constitute a crime for the purposes of the Act
unless the injuries resulted from a violation of § 18.2-51.4.
This means that, ordinarily, injuries caused by motor vehicles cannot be
compensated. There are three exceptions. First, if a driver intentionally injures

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 13

someone with an automobile, the Fund can consider an award. Second, if the
injuries resulted from a violation of DUI laws (driving under the influence), the
Fund will consider this a crime within the meaning of the Act. § 19.2-368.2
(Coverage of DUI crimes is mandated by VOCA. See subsection (b)(1) of 34
U.S.C. § 20101.) Third, § 46.2-894, commonly referred to as Felony Hit and Run,
became an eligible compensable crime on July 1, 2012. Applications for this type
of crime based on incidents occurring prior to July 1, 2012, cannot be considered
as the law is not retroactive.
(a)

Intoxication or DUI Offenses

If the victim was injured as a result of a violation of DUI laws, the injury
may be compensable if intoxication on the part of the offender caused the
victim’s injuries.
A victim of a DUI accident will ordinarily be eligible under the Act if the
offender (1) is convicted under § 18.2-266 or § 18.2-51.4; (2) refuses a
blood alcohol test but is convicted; (3) has a blood alcohol level of .08
regardless of conviction; or (4) there is a preponderance of evidence of driver
intoxication in information obtained through law-enforcement agencies or
court records.
(b)

Intentional Injury by Motor Vehicle

Under this exception to the general rule that an injury caused by a motor
vehicle is not compensable, the Act requires that the driver actually intended
to harm the victim.
(c)

Duty of Driver to Stop in Event of Accident Involving Injury or
Death

Commonly referred to as Felony Hit and Run, § 46.2-894, became an
eligible compensable crime on July 1, 2012. Applications for this type of
crime based on incidents occurring prior to July 1, 2012, cannot be
considered as the law is not retroactive.
(4)

Attempted Crimes

An attempted crime is an unfinished crime and is composed of two elements – the
intent to commit the crime, and the doing of some act toward its consummation but
falling short of the accomplishment of the ultimate design. Attempted crimes are
crimes, and a defendant may be charged with and tried for an attempt, or a judge
may reduce a criminal charge to an attempt. §§ 18.2-25 - 18.2-29 The Fund treats
attempted crimes as crimes for the purposes of the Act. § 19.2-368.2

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 14

(B)

THE CRIME RESULTED IN PERSONAL PHYSICAL/EMOTIONAL INJURY OR
DEATH

The Act provides that no award shall be made unless the Commission finds that a crime
directly resulted in personal physical or emotional injury to or death of the victim. §§ 19.2368.2 and 19.2-368.10

Property damage cannot be compensated under the Act. Thus, if a car is stolen while the
owner is away from the vehicle, the owner is certainly the victim of a crime, but he has
suffered no personal injury and will be unable to recover the value of his car from the Fund.
Consistent with federal law, the exception to this policy is replacement of windows and
locks of the victim’s residence damaged as a result of a crime as defined in §19.2-368.2.
VOCA allows the Fund to reimburse crime victims for clothing or bedding taken as
evidence. In order to reimburse this expense, the Fund must have a copy of the evidence
receipt provided to the victim by a law-enforcement agency. The Fund must also have a
receipt for the purchase of a like item that matches the description of the items on the
evidence receipt.
Although the Fund has no authority to compensate victims for property loss, damage to
property that is inseparable from a personal injury can qualify as a medical expense and may
be compensable. For instance, if a person has a prosthetic leg and the artificial limb is
damaged during an assault, the Fund will treat the loss as a personal injury and pay for a
replacement prosthesis. The Fund will reimburse victims for prosthetic devices that are lost
or damaged in the course of being subject to a crime as defined in §19.2-368.2. Prosthetic
devices are defined as items needed by the victim to perform daily activities such as
walking, eating, or dressing. Some examples of prosthetic devices are eyeglasses, contact
lenses, dentures, and artificial limbs. In order to determine if the device is a true prosthetic,
the Fund will consider the span of time between the incident and the purchase of the item.
(C)

THE CRIME WAS PROMPTLY REPORTED TO PROPER AUTHORITIES

For crimes occurring on or after July 1, 2025, police or court records must show the crime
was promptly reported to proper authorities. In determining whether a crime was promptly
reported, the Commission shall consider (1) any police records; (2) the victim’s physical,
emotional, mental, and family situation; and (3) the existence of a permanent protective
order, issued pursuant to § 16.1-279.1 or 19.2-152.10, for the victim or other persons
eligible for awards from the person responsible for the qualifying crime. Victims of child
sexual assault are exempt from this requirement.
(D)

THE CLAIM WAS TIMELY FILED

For specifics concerning filing period, see When A Claim Must Be Filed (page 12).

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 15

(E)

THE CLAIMANT'S LOSS IS COMPENSABLE UNDER THE ACT

For specifics concerning what benefits are available, see Available Benefits (page 44).
Expenses that are generally compensable include wage loss, loss of support from a deceased
victim, unreimbursed medical expenses, funeral or burial expenses, counseling, expenses
attributable to pregnancy resulting from forcible rape, moving expenses, and other
reasonable, necessary, and appropriate expenses. Generally, the Fund does not pay for
property loss. The Commission lacks authority to award attorneys’ fees. § 19.2-368.11:1
(F)

THE CLAIM HAS A MINIMUM VALUE OF $100

The Act provides that to qualify for an award, a claim must have a minimum value of
$100 after being reduced as provided in subsection G. § 19.2-368.11:1(H) If the value of
the claim exceeds $100, and the individual is an eligible claimant, but there are no
expenses that can be paid by the Fund, the claim will receive an award for “record
purposes only.” This means that the claim was valued at $100, but there were no eligible
expenses for which the Fund could pay. The claimant is allowed two years from the date
of filing to submit additional items for payment.
(G)

THE CLAIMANT IS ELIGIBLE UNDER THE ACT

For specifics concerning eligibility, see Who May Receive Benefits (pages 8-10).
(H)

CRIME LOCATION AND VICTIM’S RESIDENCY

As long as the crime was committed in Virginia, there is no requirement that the victim be a
Virginia resident or United States citizen to be eligible for an award under the Act.
However, crimes that occur outside Virginia are generally not compensable. There are two
exceptions.
First, the Fund may compensate Virginia residents who are injured or killed in foreign
countries or as a result of foreign terrorism. § 19.2-368.2 The Office for Victims of Crime
(OVC) of the US Department of Justice operates the International Terrorism Victims’
Expense Reimbursement Program (ITVERP). If a Virginia resident is injured during
foreign terrorism occurring abroad, they may recover under the Virginia program after
applying to ITVERP.
Second, the Fund may compensate Virginia residents who are victims of compensable
crimes in foreign countries or territories that do not have funding mechanisms for crime
victims [for crimes occurring after July 1, 2002, enactment date of § 19.2-368.4(C)(ii)].
The Office for Victims of Crime maintains a list of foreign countries that have crime victim
compensation programs. Please visit their website at www.ovc.gov.
In summary, if a Virginia resident is injured during a crime occurring outside of the
Commonwealth, they should apply for benefits with the crime victims’ compensation
program in the state, country, or territory where the crime occurred.
VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 16

A list of state compensation programs can be found at www.nacvcb.org or by calling the
National Association of Crime Victim’s Compensation Boards at (703) 780-3200. [See, e.g.
U.S. Justice Department, Office for Victims of Crime, NEW DIRECTIONS FROM THE FIELD: VICTIMS’
RIGHTS AND SERVICES FOR THE 21ST CENTURY, pp. 325, 353 (1997).]

GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OR REDUCTION OF BENEFITS
(A)

CONDUCT BY A VICTIM OR CLAIMANT THAT MAY REDUCE OR BAR AN
AWARD

The following circumstances in which conduct by a claimant or victim may reduce or bar
an award under the Act: (1) the claimant is criminally responsible for the crime; (2) a
person who is criminally responsible for the crime will unjustly benefit from an award;(3)
the victim failed to promptly report the crime; and/or (4) the victim contributed to his
injuries. Each of these bases for reducing or denying benefits is discussed below.
(1)

Criminal Responsibility for Crime

Subsection B of § 19.2-368.4 provides:
A person who is criminally responsible for the crime upon which a
claim is based, or an accomplice or accessory of such person, shall
not be eligible to receive an award with respect to such claim.
Note that the statute completely bars any recovery by a principal, accomplice, or
accessory to the crime underlying a claim. The statute explicitly states that such
persons are ineligible for an award.
(2)

Unjust Benefit to a Criminally Responsible Person

The Fund cannot make an award that would directly and unjustly benefit a person
who is criminally responsible. § 19.2-368.4(A)
The Fund will not deny an award on the grounds of unjust benefit based solely on
the presence of the offender in the claimant or victim’s household at the time of the
award. Subsection (b)(7) of 42 U.S.C. § 10602 provides that in order to be eligible
for federal funding, state crime victims’ compensation programs must offer
compensation to domestic violence victims and must not deny compensation to any
victim because of that victim’s familial relationship to the offender or because of the
sharing of a residence by the victim and the offender, except pursuant to rules issued
by the program to prevent unjust enrichment of the offender. The presence of the
offender in the household is only one factor to be considered in determining unjust

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 17

enrichment. The Fund will consider the facts of each situation and make a case-bycase determination when deciding whether the offender will be unjustly enriched.
When the victim and the offender are members of the same family, the Fund will
evaluate whether or not the victim (i) has reported the crime, (ii) is cooperating with
all law-enforcement agencies in the investigation and prosecution of the crime, and
(iii) will do what is possible to prevent access by the offender to compensation paid
to the victim. If the victim is cooperating fully, and if the offender will not benefit
from or have access to any cash award made by the program to the victim, then the
award shall not be denied on the basis that the offender would be unjustly enriched.
When the victim is a minor, the Fund will examine the same factors with respect to
the individual who makes the claim on behalf of the minor.
In determining whether enrichment is substantial or inconsequential, factors to be
considered include the amount of the award and whether a portion of the
compensation award will be used directly by or on behalf of the offender. If the
offender has direct access to a cash award or if a substantial portion of it will be used
to pay for his living expenses, that portion of the award that will substantially benefit
the offender may be reduced or denied. When enrichment is inconsequential or
minimal, the award shall not be reduced or denied.
When unjust benefit is at issue, the Fund will make payments directly to third-party
providers whenever possible to prevent cash intended to pay for the victim's
expenses from being used by or on behalf of the offender. In other words, the Fund
may prevent an offender from using a cash award for himself by paying a doctor or
counselor directly, ensuring that the offender has no opportunity to divert the award.
With regard to claims from or on behalf of abused children, the Fund will not
penalize child victims by denying or delaying payment when offender or collateral
resources are not forthcoming. Third-party payments will be made whenever
possible to prevent or minimize unjust enrichment of offenders living with abused
children. The Fund may also consider establishment of a trust arrangement to
guarantee that the award is used for the purposes it is intended, such as payment of
mental health counseling.
(3)

Failure to Promptly Report the Crime

No award shall be made unless the Commission finds that police records show
that the crime was promptly reported to the proper authorities. Victims of child
sexual assault are exempt from this rule. §19.2-368.10(3)

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 18

(4)

Victim’s Contribution to Injuries
(a)

Statutory Standards

When determining the amount of an award, the Commission must
determine whether, because of his conduct, the victim of a crime
contributed to the infliction of his injury. The Commission shall reduce
the award or reject the claim altogether, in accordance with such
determination. § 19.2-368.12(C)
In 1998, the General Assembly amended § 19.2-368.6 by adding
subsection D, which provides that “there shall be a rebuttable
presumption that the claimant did not contribute to and was not
responsible for the infliction of his injuries.”
In addition, the Commission may disregard a victim’s responsibility for
his own injury altogether, if the records show the victim was trying to
prevent a crime from occurring in his presence or trying to apprehend a
person who committed a crime in his presence. § 19.2-368.12(C)
(b)

Application of Standards

When a claim is made by the survivors of a homicide victim, the victim’s
contribution to his injuries can bar or reduce the award for the survivors.
In other words, survivors stand in the shoes of the victim with respect to
contribution. If the victim contributed to his injury, his survivors may
receive a reduced award or no award at all. This is true even if the
survivors did nothing, personally, that might cause the award to be denied
or reduced.
Deciding whether a victim was responsible for his own injury requires a
factual determination by the person to whom the claim is assigned.
Illustration
Y pulls a knife on X and robs him. X defends himself by shooting Y. Y
dies, and X is charged with involuntary manslaughter. Y’s grandmother
files for funeral expenses. The grandmother’s claim will be denied,
because Y was committing the crime upon which the claim was based.

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 19

(B)

FAILURE TO PERFECT CLAIM
(1)

General

Section 19.2-368.5:1 of the Act provides:
“If, following the initial filing of a claim, a claimant fails to
take such further steps to support or perfect the claim as may
be required by the Commission within 180 days after written
notice of such requirement is sent by the Commission to the
claimant, the claimant shall be deemed in default. If the
claimant is in default, the Commission shall notify the claimant
that the claim is denied and the claimant shall be forever
barred from reasserting it; however, the Commission may
reopen the proceeding upon a showing by the claimant that
the failure to do the acts required by the Commission was
beyond the control of the claimant.”
(2)

When Information Is Not Received

The assigned claims examiner reviews the claim at set-up, when new mail is
received, and at regular intervals. When adequate information has been received,
the Fund will make the appropriate decision to award or deny benefits.
The Fund will mail written notices to the claimant in an attempt to obtain required
documentation. These notices will specify the information that has not been
received and the identity of the person or organization believed to have the
information. The first written notice, commonly called the “acknowledgement
letter,” is the “written notice” referred to in the above-quoted statute. The
claimant has 180 days from the date of this letter to obtain the requested
information and forward it to the Fund. § 19.2-368.5:1
Claimants bear ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Fund receives
the documentation required to make a determination on their claim. Failure
to provide the information requested by the Fund, provide change of address
information, or assist the Fund with obtaining documents may result in the
denial of the claim. Any claimant who needs assistance with perfecting their
claim should contact the Fund.

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 20

(C)

REIMBURSEMENT FROM COLLATERAL RESOURCES
(1)

General

After determining the amount of an award, the Fund will reduce the award by what
is informally called “collateral resources.” Virginia Code directs that awards “shall
be reduced by the amount of any payments received or to be received as a result of
the injury from or on behalf of the person who committed the crime or from any
other public or private source” (emphasis added). § 19.2-368.11:1(G)
The Fund’s definition of public funds is a program funded in whole or in part
with monies received from a state or federal government, including but not
limited to (a) Medicare and Medicaid, (b) Social Security, and (c) healthcare
provider financial assistance/charity care. Private funds are defined as (d) health
insurance, (e) life insurance, (f) funeral/burial insurance, (g) income from a
deceased victim’s estate, (h) disability insurance, (i) workers’ compensation, (j)
sick leave or short-term disability leave, (k) court-ordered restitution, (l) homeowners’ and renters’ insurance, (m) automobile insurance, and (n) civil suits.
A victim may meet the requirements for an award, but the victim's benefits may be
reduced to zero when the collateral resources exceed the Fund’s $35,000 maximum
award. In re: Claim of Quillen, CICF File No. 88-0678, Opinion by Tarr, Chief Deputy
Commissioner (December 12, 1988) For instance, if a claimant has health insurance, the
Fund will pay only the amount that is considered the insured’s responsibility (e.g.,
co-pay, coinsurance, deductible) as demonstrated by the insurance carrier’s
explanation of benefits. For this reason, claimants must submit records that
demonstrate how much has been paid by others on their behalf.
When the victim and the perpetrator are members of the same family, collateral
resources available to the victim from the offender shall be examined. Collateral
resources may include court-ordered restitution, an offending spouse's medical
insurance, or other resources of the offender available to cover the victim's expenses.
In evaluating the availability of collateral resources, a determination shall be made
(i) as to whether the offender has a legal responsibility to pay, (ii), whether the
offender has resources to pay, and, (iii) whether payment is likely. The victim
should not be penalized for the failure of an offender to meet legal obligations to pay
for the costs of the victim's recovery.
This policy was updated March 27, 2019.
(2)

Payments That Are Counted as Collateral Resources
(a)

Medicare and Medicaid

Medicare issues a statement similar to those of private insurance
companies. Copies of statements are sent to the insured person informing
them of what has been paid and what they are responsible for paying.
VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 21

Claimants should submit copies of the Medicare and/or Medicaid
explanation of benefits (EOBs). It is important for claimants to keep
copies of their EOBs otherwise it may cause delays in processing their
claim. The Fund may request this information from the victim’s medical
provider in order to expedite claims processing.
Payments by Medicare and Medicaid are deducted from criminal injuries
awards as collateral resources. For information about eligibility and
application requirements, contact any local Department of Social Services
(DSS) office or the Department of Medical Assistance Services (DMAS).
(b)

Social Security Benefits

Social Security Disability and Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
benefits are paid as a result of injury or death and, therefore, are deducted
from awards for wage loss and loss of support.
In the case of injury, if the victim’s disability is expected to extend past
twelve months, he or she may be eligible for Social Security or Social
Security Disability benefits. The Fund may reimburse loss of income
incurred during the mandatory five (5)-month waiting period; however,
the Fund will seek redress of award payment from the victim in the event
he or she receives retroactive benefits.
In the case of death, if monthly payments are lower than the victim’s normal
wages, the Fund will utilize wage loss calculations in § 19.2-368:11.1 (A)(B)
to determine if the victim’s dependents are eligible for payment from the
Fund.
(c)

Healthcare Provider Financial Assistance/Charity Care

The Commonwealth of Virginia requires certain licensed medical facilities
to provide a certain amount of charity care annually as a condition of their
certificates of need granted by the Virginia Department of Health. Each
medical facility determines its own rules for the approval and distribution
of charity care. Claimants who are uninsured or have catastrophic injuries
may be eligible for charity care benefits from the facility where they
received care. This financial assistance may also extend to providers who
treated the victim at that facility (e.g., radiologists, anesthesiologists,
emergency room physicians). All claimants who may be eligible are
strongly urged to apply for financial assistance to ensure they receive the
most benefit from all the benefits available to them and to help preserve
available VVF monies for expenses that may arise in the future.

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 22

(d)

Health Insurance Benefits

Claimants should submit copies of their insurance provider’s explanation
of benefits (EOBs). It is important for claimants to keep copies of their
EOBs as it can be difficult for the Fund to obtain copies from insurance
companies. The Fund also requests this information from the victim’s
medical provider in order to expedite claims processing.
The Fund will only pay medical expenses that are not reimbursed through
insurance or other sources. When the claimant or victim has insurance, the
Fund will pay deductibles, co-payments, coinsurance, and charges that are
not covered as long as the expenses are appropriate and reasonably incurred.
§ 19.2-368.11:1 Should the claimant have medical insurance, the Fund will not
require the use of in-network providers.
If the service provider does not file claims directly to the insurance carrier,
the claimant is required to do so and to submit EOBs as described above.
(e)

Life Insurance

Life insurance is generally designed to compensate for loss of
companionship and financial support; therefore, it is considered a
collateral resource and is deducted from awards for loss of support.
Jennings v. Division of Crime Victims’ Comp., 5 Va. App. 536, 365 S.E.2d 241
(1988)

Life insurance is deducted from awards for funeral expenses. Policy of the
Commission, May 29, 2003

Life insurance is not deducted from awards for survivor counseling. In re:
Claim of Albrecht, CICF File No. 98-1236, Opinion by Diamond, Chairman (April 2,
1999)

(f)

Funeral/Burial Insurance

Payments from funeral or burial insurance, automobile insurance, and life
insurance are deducted from an award for funeral or burial expenses. (Policy
of the Commission, May 29, 2003) If the individual taking responsibility for the
funeral contract is not the beneficiary of the life insurance policy, the Fund
cannot consider it a collateral resource for funeral expense. The Fund will
not deduct Social Security death benefits or the value of a victim’s estate
from an award for funeral expenses. (Policy of the Commission, April 7, 1999)
(g)

Income from a Deceased Victim’s Estate in Excess of $35,000

The Fund will not deduct the value of a victim’s estate from an award for
funeral expenses.

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 23

When a victim dies and leaves an estate, the amount of the estate that
exceeds $35,000 is a collateral resource to their claim. The criminal injuries
award to a surviving claimant will be reduced by the amount the claimant
actually received from the victim’s estate in excess of $35,000. (Policy of the
Commission, June 5, 2012)

Illustration
X dies and leaves $6,000 to his sister. The sister’s criminal injuries award will
not be reduced at all, as the sister received less than $35,000 from X’s estate.
(h)

Disability Insurance

Payments made by employers or others as a result of injuries, including
benefits under short- and long-term disability policies, will be deducted from
criminal injuries awards.
(i)

Workers’ Compensation

Sometimes, the same facts that give rise to a criminal injuries claim may
make a claimant eligible for workers’ compensation benefits. For instance,
if a cashier at a convenience store is shot during a hold-up, he may be
eligible to receive workers’ compensation. If this is the case, a victim is
required to apply for workers’ compensation. The Fund may defer ruling on
the criminal injuries claim until it is known what amount, if any, the claimant
will receive from workers’ compensation. If no award is received from
workers’ compensation, the criminal injuries claim will be processed. If a
workers’ compensation award is received, the criminal injuries claim will
not be paid. The exception to this rule is that the Fund can consider those
expenses disallowed by workers’ compensation (e.g., first week of wage loss,
moving expenses). However, it should be clear that the Fund does not make
up any difference between the victim’s expenses and the amount workers’
compensation pays. If the victim does not agree with the workers’
compensation decision, he may utilize VWC’s available appeal process.
(j)

Sick Leave or Short-Term Disability Leave

In wage loss claims, the Fund will not compensate a victim for time away
from work that was covered by sick leave, short-term disability, long-term
disability, or other donated leave. These benefits are provided by employers
to employees for illness or injury and, accordingly, are deducted from wage
loss awards.
Victims are not required to take vacation leave for disability caused by a
crime; however, if they have already done so when the VVF claim is filed,
it cannot be reimbursed.

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 24

(k)

Court-Ordered Restitution

When a court orders an offender to pay restitution to a victim, either as
part of a plea agreement or as part of a sentence, amounts paid or to be
paid by the perpetrator may be deducted from criminal injuries awards.
Subsection G of §19.2-368.11:1 specifically provides that the Fund is to
reduce any award by the amount of any payments received or to be
received as a result of the injury from or on behalf of the person who
committed the crime. If restitution payments are redirected to the Fund by
the restitution monitor, the amount will not be deducted from an award.
In family violence cases, if the offender fails to meet legal responsibilities to
pay restitution or provide for the medical and support needs of a spouse or
child, or if the offender impedes payment of insurance that may be available
to cover a spouse's or child's expenses, the Fund should attempt to meet the
victim's needs to the extent allowed. However, the Fund will exercise its
subrogation rights under § 19.2-368.15 and seek to recover any award under
the Act from offenders who have been ordered to make restitution. In such
cases, the Fund will notify a victim of its intent to pursue its subrogation
rights against the offender, so that the victim can make informed decisions
about their safety.
In order for the Fund to collect against a perpetrator, information is required
on the disposition of the court case. The Fund will not issue an initial award
or supplemental awards without the current status of the court case. In all
cases where an individual is tried for a crime on which a claim is based, the
Fund will request a copy of the sentencing order.
(l)

Homeowners’ and Renters’ Insurance

When a covered crime occurs in the victim’s residence, the claimant should
file a claim with his homeowner’s or renter’s insurance and report all
payments received to the Fund.
(m)

Automobile Insurance

Any victim injured by or while in a motor vehicle must file a claim under
any motor vehicle insurance policy available to him. This may include, but
is not limited to, the medical coverage or uninsured/underinsured motorist
provisions with his personal automobile insurance carrier or the insurance
policy for the vehicle causing the injury. This coverage will usually pay
benefits up to a fixed amount without regard to whether the victim’s vehicle
was involved in the incident. For example, payment may be made to a

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 25

victim who is injured while a pedestrian or a passenger in the vehicle of
another.
Some specific examples in which the Fund would expect to see an
automobile insurance claim include victims who are (i) intentionally struck
by a vehicle, (ii) involved in a DUI accident, or (iii) victims of felony Hit
and Run.
(n)

Civil Suits

If the claimant recovers damages through civil litigation related to the
crime, he must repay any awards received by the Fund. The Fund may
make the award in advance to settlement upon the claimant’s attorney’s
agreement to repay the Fund.
(3)

Payments That Are Not Counted as Collateral Resources
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

(f)
(g)
(4)

Homes, cars, bank accounts, or other assets
Credit available through banks or other financial institutions
Income from parent or guardian when victim is a minor
Financial assistance from family to the claimant
Donations/contributions made for the victim or their family members
(e.g., GoFundMe, church donations, fundraisers, etc.)
➢ Exception: Reimbursement will be offset by donations that
have been paid directly to a service provider for crimerelated expenses when record of payment received by the
Fund verifies the expense was covered by donated monies.
Temporary Aid to Needy Families (TANF)
Food stamps

Allocating Collateral Resources

When several claimants file for an award based on the death of an individual,
collateral resources will only be deducted from the award of the person or persons
actually receiving those benefits. The Fund does not combine the collateral
resources of multiple claimants and deduct the combined total from the maximum
award.
(5)

Continuing Payments from Collateral Resources

Sometimes benefits received as collateral resources are paid in installments over a
protracted period of time. Such benefits may be subject to reduction or
termination. Workers’ compensation benefits and Social Security payments are
the best examples of such benefits. If the Fund reduces an award by periodic
payments and the payments are later reduced or terminated, the Fund will review
its decision.
VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 26

(D)

ELIGIBLE CRIME TYPES AND EXPENSES TIED TO DATE OF ENACTMENT

Through the history of the Fund, eligible crime types have been added or expanded. For
example, stalking was added as a compensable crime in 2008. Benefit amounts and types
have also changed over time. When items have been changed by law or policy, the
changes are not retroactive. The claim and relevant benefits can only be considered in
the context of what was allowable as a matter of law and/or agency policy on the date of
the crime incident.

##

VVF POLICIES | REVISED SEPTEMBER 2025

PAGE | 27

