How to Apply for ACP as a Survivor Skip to main content Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts William Francis Galvin Select Language Arabic Chinese (Simplified) Chinese (Traditional) French German Greek Haitian Creole Hindi Italian Khmer Korean Portuguese (Brazil) Russian Spanish Vietnamese Translate ﻿ Address Confidentiality Program How to Apply - Survivors Exit Site If you are a survivor of domestic violence, sexual assault, rape, or stalking, you may apply to participate in the Address Confidentiality Program (ACP). You may apply when you relocate to a new address that the abuser, perpetrator, or stalker does not know. To remain eligible, you may not disclose your new address to any state or local agency. As an ACP participant, you will receive an alternate mailing address to use when interacting with state and local government agencies, such as the Registry of Motor Vehicles, MassHealth, and the Department of Transitional Assistance. This helps prevent your actual address from appearing on any new public records. You will also be eligible for confidential voter registration, to keep your name off public voter rolls. If you are approved as a program participant, any mail that is sent to your ACP address will be collected by ACP staff and forwarded to your home. All ACP records are strictly confidential. Your actual address will not be released to any person or agency.
Follow the steps listed below to apply. How to Apply 1. Find an application assistant to help you You will need an application assistant to help you. Application assistants are employees of a state or local agency, or of a nonprofit program that provides counseling, referral, shelter or other specialized service to survivors of domestic abuse, rape, sexual assault or stalking. They are chosen by their organization and trained by the Secretary of the Commonwealth. Call 1-866-SAFE-ADD (1-866-723-3233) to find an application Assistant. 2. Complete the Application The application assistant will provide the application and help you complete it. 3. Submit the Application Your application assistant will submit the application to the Address Confidentiality Program. An ACP employee will contact you if your application is approved. ﻿ William Francis Galvin Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts 1 Ashburton Place Boston, MA   02108 1-800-392-6090 cis@sec.state.ma.us Connect with Us Terms and Conditions Accessibility Statement Original text Rate this translation Your feedback will be used to help improve Google Translate Close suggested results