Massachusetts Victims of Violent Crime Compensation | Mass.gov An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Here's how you know Official websites use .mass.gov A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government
                organization in Massachusetts. Secure websites use HTTPS A lock icon or https:// means you've safely connected
                to the official website. Share sensitive information
                only on official, secure websites. This page, Massachusetts Victims of Violent Crime Compensation, is offered by Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance Show more Massachusetts Victims of Violent Crime Compensation If you, a family member or a loved one has been the victim of a violent crime, you can fill out an application with the Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance. Violent crime impacts every aspect of a person’s life. The resulting physical and psychological injuries can affect a person’s ability to work, go to school, and meet their own individual goals and aspirations. Often victims may require treatment to address the injuries caused by the violent acts of another. The monetary expenses incurred – after losing a loved one, for medical and dental care, for psychological assistance, and by injuries resulting in a disability to work – should not serve to further victimize those who are affected by violent crime. Applying for Victims of Violent Crime Assistance Victim Bill of Rights Brochures Massachusetts Compensation for Victims of Violent Crime Emergency Regulations , Open PDF file, 811.21 KB (PDF 811.21 KB) To request the application below in an alternate form or language, please email VCCorrespondence@mass.gov. Completed applications must be submitted by email, fax, or mail using the form provided on this website. Please contact MOVA if you have questions. Victim Compensation application English , Open PDF file, 237.85 KB (PDF 237.85 KB) Solicitud de Compensación para Víctimas , Open PDF file, 244.08 KB (PDF 244.08 KB) Contact Information Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance + Address Boston Office 1 Ashburton Place, Suite 1310, Boston, MA 02108 Directions Northampton Office 403 Pleasant Street, Northampton, MA 01060 Directions Phone Boston Office Call Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance, Boston Office at (617) 586-1340 If your call goes to voicemail, please leave us a message with the appropriate contact information to reach you. Northampton Office Call Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance, Northampton Office at (413) 387-4300 Online General email address Email Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance at MOVA@mass.gov Victim Compensation email address Email Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance at VCCorrespondence@mass.gov AskMOVA https://www.mass.gov/askmova Fax Victim Compensation Fax 617-742-6262 Help Us Improve Mass.gov with your feedback Thank you for your website feedback! We will use this information to improve this page. If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site. Feedback