General Law - Part III, Title IV, Chapter 258C, Section 5 Skip to Content Section 5 General Laws Skip to Content Print Page Prev ious Next Section 5: Filing and proof of claims;  civil investigative demands Section 5. (a)(1) A claim for compensation under this chapter shall be filed within three years of the date of the crime. [ Paragraph (2) of subsection (a) effective until July 1, 2025.  For text effective July 1, 2025, see below.] (2) The claimant has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that he is eligible to receive compensation. [ Paragraph (2) of subsection (a) as amended by 2025, 9, Sec. 71 effective July 1, 2025.  See 2025, 9, Sec. 138.  For text effective until July 1, 2025, see above.] (2) The claimant has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the claimant is eligible to receive compensation. [ Paragraph (3) of subsection (a) effective until July 1, 2025.  For text effective July 1, 2025, see below.] (3) A claim under this chapter shall be made on a claim form prescribed by the division.  The claim shall be accompanied by copies of bills and other documentation supporting the claim, and shall be signed under the pains and penalties of perjury.  Any claim for loss of support or other expenses incurred as the result of the death of a victim must be accompanied by proof of dependency of the claimant upon the victim.  All claims must contain a release of information necessary to investigate the claim. [ Paragraph (3) of subsection (a) as amended by 2025, 9, Sec. 72 effective July 1, 2025.  See 2025, 9, Sec. 138.  For text effective until July 1, 2025, see above.] (3) A claim under this chapter shall be made on a claim form prescribed by the agency.  The claim shall be accompanied by copies of bills and other documentation supporting the claim, and shall be signed under the pains and penalties of perjury.  Any claim for loss of support or other expenses incurred as the result of the death of a victim must be accompanied by proof of dependency of the claimant upon the victim.  All claims must contain a release of information necessary to investigate the claim. Law enforcement agencies, district attorneys, the department of children and families and the department of transitional assistance, hospitals, physicians and other service providers shall cooperate with the department in the investigation of claims filed under this chapter. [ First paragraph of subsection (b) effective until July 1, 2025.  For text effective July 1, 2025, see below.] (b) Upon receipt of a claim hereunder, the division shall acknowledge receipt of same, in writing, to the claimant or counsel of record.  The division shall, thereafter, conduct an investigation of the claim to verify the information contained on the application. [ First paragraph of subsection (b) as amended by 2025, 9, Sec. 72 effective July 1, 2025.  See 2025, 9, Sec. 138.  For text effective until July 1, 2025, see above.] (b) Upon receipt of a claim hereunder, the agency shall acknowledge receipt of same, in writing, to the claimant or counsel of record.  The agency shall, thereafter, conduct an investigation of the claim to verify the information contained on the application. [ Second paragraph of subsection (b) effective until July 1, 2025.  For text effective July 1, 2025, see below.] The division shall be authorized to issue a written civil investigative demand, issue interrogatories, under oath, and requests for production of documents, and take oral testimony, under oath, in order to obtain information necessary to verify a claim.  All information collected by the division shall be kept in accordance with the provisions of chapters four, sixty-six and sixty-six A. [ Second paragraph of subsection (b) as amended by 2025, 9, Sec. 72 and 73 effective July 1, 2025.  See 2025, 9, Sec. 138.  For text effective until July 1, 2025, see above.] The agency, through the attorney general, shall be authorized to issue a written civil investigative demand, issue interrogatories, under oath, and requests for production of documents, and take oral testimony, under oath, in order to obtain information necessary to verify a claim.  All information collected by the agency shall be kept in accordance with the provisions of chapters four, sixty-six and sixty-six A. A civil investigative demand may be served by certified mail, return receipt requested, and first class mail and shall be returned within twenty days from the date of service.  Failure to comply with this provision may result in dismissal of the claim for compensation. [ Fourth paragraph of subsection (b) effective until July 1, 2025.  For text effective July 1, 2025, see below.] Whenever a person fails to comply with a civil investigative demand served upon him pursuant to this section, the attorney general may petition the district court of any county in which such person resides, is found, or transacts business, to enter such orders as may be necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this section.  A failure to comply with an order entered under this section shall be punished as a contempt of court. [ Fourth paragraph of subsection (b) as amended by 2025, 9, Secs. 74 and 75 effective July 1, 2025.  See 2025, 9, Sec. 138.  For text effective until July 1, 2025, see above.] Whenever a person fails to comply with a civil investigative demand served upon the person pursuant to this section, the agency, through the attorney general, may petition the district court of any county in which such person resides, is found, or transacts business, to enter such orders as may be necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this section.  A failure to comply with an order entered under this section shall be punished as a contempt of court. × Register for MyLegislature Register With An Existing Account Sign in with Facebook Sign in with Google Register With Your Email Address Already have an account? Sign in here. Forgot Password? × Sign in to MyLegislature Sign In With Your Facebook or Google+ Account Sign in with Facebook Sign in with Google Sign In With Your MyLegislature Account Not Registered? Click here. Learn More Here! » × Forgot Password × Sign In Required This feature is exclusive to users of MyLegislature Sign In Register × Search The Legislature