Applying for Victims of Violent Crime Assistance | Mass.gov An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Here's how you know Official websites use .mass.gov A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government
                organization in Massachusetts. Secure websites use HTTPS A lock icon or https:// means you've safely connected
                to the official website. Share sensitive information
                only on official, secure websites. This page, Applying for Victims of Violent Crime Assistance, is offered by Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance Show more Applying for Victims of Violent Crime Assistance If you or a loved one has been the victim of violent crime, please contact the Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance (MOVA). The Victim Compensation Program at MOVA is able to provide financial assistance to eligible victims of violent crime for uninsured medical and dental care, mental health counseling, funeral and burial costs, and income lost due to the inability to work.  Victims of crimes that occurred on or after July 1, 2013, may, in addition, be eligible to receive financial assistance relating to compensable expenses. These funds are primarily obtained from perpetrators, and can assist with expenses up to a maximum of $25,000 per crime. If you or a loved one has been the victim of violent crime, please contact MOVA for further assistance, at (617) 586-1340. Please note that victim compensation funds are funds of last resort and are to be rewarded only after all other forms of assistance have been exhausted. Who is eligible? Victims of violent crime occurring in Massachusetts Dependents and family members of homicide victims Any person responsible for the funeral expenses of a homicide victim What are the requirements? The crime must have been reported to police within five days unless there is good cause for delay. You must cooperate with law enforcement officials in the investigation and prosecution of the crime unless there is a reasonable excuse not to cooperate. You must apply for compensation within three years of the crime.  Victims under the age of 18 at the time of the crime may apply until age 21, or later in certain limited circumstances. What expenses are covered? To the extent insurance or other funds do not cover your expenses, you may be eligible to be reimbursed for: Medical and dental expenses (including equipment, supplies and medications) Counseling expenses (for victims, for family members of homicide victims, and for children who witness violence against a family member) Funeral/burial costs (limits apply) Lost wages (for victims only) Loss of financial support (for dependents of homicide victims) Homemaker expenses Ancillary funeral/burial Replacement bedding/clothing Crime scene cleanup Forensic Sexual Assault Exam Security measures Counseling for non-offending parents of a child victim What expenses are not covered? Property losses, compensation for pain and suffering, and all other losses To apply Complete the "Application For Crime Victim Compensation" and return it to MOVA. Completed applications must be submitted by email, fax, or mail using the form provided on this website. Please contact MOVA if you have questions or need assistance. Las solicitudes completadas deben ser enviadas por correo electrónico, correo postal, o fax utilizando el formulario que está disponible en este siteo web. Por favor, póngase en contacto con MOVA si tiene preguntas or necesita ayuda. Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance Victim Compensation Program One Ashburton Place, Suite 1310 Boston, MA 02108 (617) 586 - 1340 (617) 742-6262 fax In general, you will receive a decision 4 to 6 months later. Your claim can be reopened for future expenses. To request this application in alternate form or another language, please email VCCorrespondence@mass.gov Application and Brochure for Crime Victim's Compensation Contact Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance + Online General email address Email Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance at MOVA@mass.gov Victim Compensation email address Email Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance at VCCorrespondence@mass.gov AskMOVA https://www.mass.gov/askmova Phone Boston Office Call Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance, Boston Office at (617) 586-1340 If your call goes to voicemail, please leave us a message with the appropriate contact information to reach you. Northampton Office Call Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance, Northampton Office at (413) 387-4300 Fax Victim Compensation Fax 617-742-6262 Address Boston Office 1 Ashburton Place, Suite 1310, Boston, MA 02108 Directions Northampton Office 403 Pleasant Street, Northampton, MA 01060 Directions Related Application for Crime Victim's Compensation Contact Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance Online General email address Email Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance at MOVA@mass.gov Victim Compensation email address Email Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance at VCCorrespondence@mass.gov AskMOVA https://www.mass.gov/askmova Phone Boston Office Call Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance, Boston Office at (617) 586-1340 If your call goes to voicemail, please leave us a message with the appropriate contact information to reach you. Northampton Office Call Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance, Northampton Office at (413) 387-4300 more less contact info Fax Victim Compensation Fax 617-742-6262 Address Boston Office 1 Ashburton Place, Suite 1310, Boston, MA 02108 Directions Northampton Office 403 Pleasant Street, Northampton, MA 01060 Directions Related Application for Crime Victim's Compensation Help Us Improve Mass.gov with your feedback Thank you for your website feedback! We will use this information to improve this page. If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site. Feedback