1

ADDRESS CONFIDENTIALITY PROGRAM, §9E.2

CHAPTER 9E
ADDRESS CONFIDENTIALITY PROGRAM
Referred to in §9.8, 252B.9

9E.1
9E.2
9E.3
9E.4
9E.5

Purpose.
Definitions.
Address confidentiality program.
Certification cancellation.
Use of designated address.

9E.6
9E.7
9E.8

Voting by program participant —
absentee ballot.
Confidentiality of information.
Disclosure of program participant
address in legal proceedings
— protective order.

9E.1 Purpose.
The general assembly finds that individuals attempting to escape from actual or threatened
domestic abuse, domestic abuse assault, sexual abuse, assault, stalking, or human trafficking
frequently establish new addresses in order to prevent their assailants or probable assailants
from finding them. The purpose of this chapter is to enable state and local agencies to respond
to requests for data without disclosing the location of a victim of domestic abuse, domestic
abuse assault, sexual abuse, assault, stalking, or human trafficking; to enable interagency
cooperation with the secretary of state in providing address confidentiality for victims of
domestic abuse, domestic abuse assault, sexual abuse, assault, stalking, or human trafficking;
and to enable program participants to use an address designated by the secretary of state
as a substitute mailing address for the purposes specified in this chapter. In addition, the
purpose of this chapter is to prevent such victims from being physically located through a
public records search.
2015 Acts, ch 96, §2, 17; 2021 Acts, ch 183, §1
9E.2 Definitions.
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1. “Address” means a residential street address, school address, or work address of an
individual, as specified on the individual’s application to be a program participant under this
chapter.
2. “Applicant” means an adult, a parent or guardian acting on behalf of an eligible minor,
or a guardian acting on behalf of an incapacitated person as defined in section 633.701.
3. “Designated address” means the mailing address assigned to a program participant by
the secretary.
4. “Domestic abuse” means the same as defined in section 236.2.
5. “Domestic abuse assault” means the same as defined in section 708.2A.
6. a. “Eligible person” means a person who is a resident of this state, an adult, a minor, or
an incapacitated person as defined in section 633.701, and is one of the following:
(1) A victim of domestic abuse, domestic abuse assault, sexual abuse, assault, stalking,
or human trafficking as evidenced by the filing of a petition pursuant to section 236.3 or a
criminal complaint or information pursuant to section 708.1, 708.2A, 708.11, or 710A.2, or
any violation contained in chapter 709.
(2) A currently active or retired state or local judicial officer, as defined in section 4.1, a
federal judge, or a spouse or child of such a person.
(3) A currently active or retired state or local prosecuting attorney, as defined in section
801.4, or a spouse or child of such a person.
(4) A currently active or retired peace officer, as defined in section 801.4, civilian employee
of a law enforcement agency, or a spouse or child of such a person.
b. For purposes of this subsection, a person determined to be a sexually violent predator
pursuant to section 229A.7, a person required to register as a sex offender under chapter
692A, or a person determined to be a sexually violent predator or required to register as a
sex offender pursuant to similar laws of another state is not an eligible person.
7. “Human trafficking” means a crime described in section 710A.2.
8. “Mail” means first-class letters and flats delivered via the United States postal service,
including priority, express, and certified mail, and excluding packages, parcels, periodicals,
Tue Dec 09 22:33:57 2025

Iowa Code 2026, Chapter 9E (42, 2)

§9E.2, ADDRESS CONFIDENTIALITY PROGRAM

2

and catalogues, unless they are clearly identifiable as pharmaceuticals or clearly indicate that
they are sent by a state or county government agency.
9. “Program” means the address confidentiality program established in this chapter.
10. “Program participant” means an individual certified by the secretary as a program
participant under section 9E.3.
11. “Secretary” means the secretary of state.
12. “Sexual abuse” means a violation of any provision of chapter 709.
13. “Stalking” means the same as defined in section 708.11.
2015 Acts, ch 96, §3, 17; 2018 Acts, ch 1149, §1, 12; 2021 Acts, ch 183, §2
9E.3 Address confidentiality program.
1. Application. The secretary shall certify an eligible person as a program participant if
the secretary receives an application containing all of the following information:
a. The full legal name of the eligible person.
b. A statement by the applicant that the applicant has good reason to believe the following:
(1) Either of the following:
(a) The eligible person listed on the application is a victim of domestic abuse, domestic
abuse assault, sexual abuse, assault, stalking, or human trafficking.
(b) The eligible person fears for the person’s safety, the safety of another person who
resides in the same household as the eligible person, or the safety of persons on whose behalf
the application is made.
(2) The eligible person is not applying for certification as a program participant in order
to avoid prosecution.
c. A designation of the secretary as the agent for service of process and for the purpose
of receipt of mail.
d. The telephone number or telephone numbers where the secretary can contact the
applicant or eligible person.
e. The residential address of the eligible person, disclosure of which could lead to an
increased risk of domestic abuse, domestic abuse assault, sexual abuse, assault, stalking,
or human trafficking. If the eligible person’s residential address is a shelter known to the
program, the applicant may provide the shelter’s name and other contact information in lieu
of the shelter’s physical address.
f. If mail cannot be delivered to the residential address of the eligible person, the address
to which mail can be sent to the eligible person. If the eligible person’s mailing address is a
shelter known to the program, the applicant may provide the shelter’s name and other contact
information in lieu of the shelter’s physical address.
g. A statement whether the eligible person would like information on becoming an
absentee ballot recipient pursuant to section 9E.6.
h. A statement from the eligible person that gives the secretary consent to confirm the
eligible person’s participation in the program to a third party.
i. The signature of the applicant indicating the applicant’s authority to act on behalf of the
eligible person, if appropriate.
j. The date the application was signed.
k. Any other information as required by the secretary pursuant to rule.
2. Filing. Applications shall be filed with the secretary.
3. Certification. Upon the filing of a complete application, the secretary shall certify the
eligible person as a program participant. A program participant shall be certified for four
years following the date the application is certified by the secretary unless the certification
is canceled, withdrawn, or invalidated. The secretary shall establish by rule a renewal
procedure for recertification.
4. Changes in information. A program participant or an applicant shall inform the
secretary of any changes in the program participant’s information submitted on the
application.
5. Designated address. The secretary shall assign a designated address to which all mail
for a program participant shall be sent.
6. Attaining age of majority. An individual who was a minor when the person was
Tue Dec 09 22:33:57 2025

Iowa Code 2026, Chapter 9E (42, 2)

3

ADDRESS CONFIDENTIALITY PROGRAM, §9E.5

certified as a program participant is responsible for changes in information and renewal
after the individual reaches the age of eighteen.
7. Liability. A governmental body, as defined in section 21.2, or an entity created
pursuant to chapter 28E, shall not be liable for acts or omissions relating to this chapter.
2015 Acts, ch 96, §4, 17; 2017 Acts, ch 29, §9, 10; 2021 Acts, ch 183, §3, 4; 2025 Acts, ch 65,
§1
Referred to in §9E.2
Subsection 1, paragraphs e and f amended

9E.4 Certification cancellation.
1. The secretary may cancel a program participant’s certification under any of the
following circumstances:
a. The program participant’s legal name or contact information changes, unless the
program participant provides the secretary with prior written notice of the name change or
contact information.
b. Mail forwarded by the secretary to the program participant’s address is returned as
undeliverable by the United States postal service.
c. The program participant is no longer eligible for the program.
d. The program participant does not accept service of process or is unavailable for delivery
of service of process as described in section 9E.5, subsection 4.
2. The secretary shall cancel a program participant’s certification for any of the following
reasons:
a. The program participant’s application contains false information.
b. The secretary receives information from a reliable source that the program participant
has died.
c. A program participant with legal documentation from a reliable source requests an
adult member of a household to be removed from the program. An adult member of a
household whose program certification is canceled is eligible to rejoin the program.
2015 Acts, ch 96, §5, 17; 2025 Acts, ch 65, §2
Subsection 2 amended

9E.5 Use of designated address.
1. When a program participant presents the program participant’s designated address
to any person, that designated address shall be accepted as the address of the program
participant. The person shall not require the program participant to submit any other
address that could be used to physically locate the program participant either as a substitute
address or in addition to the designated address, or as a condition of receiving a service or
benefit, unless the service or benefit would be impossible to provide without knowledge of
the program participant’s physical location.
2. A program participant may use the designated address as the program participant’s
work address.
3. The secretary shall forward all mail sent to the designated address to the program
participant. At the request of the program participant, the secretary may hold the program
participant’s mail for up to thirty days.
4. The office of the secretary of state shall act as agent of the program participant for
purposes of service of process. The secretary shall forward any service of process received by
the office of the secretary of state by certified mail, return receipt requested to the designated
address of the program participant within three days of receipt in the office of the secretary of
state. A program participant shall either accept or reject service of process and the secretary
shall notify the person initiating the service of process, unless such person is not ascertainable
from the service of process documents, of the date of the program participant’s acceptance
or rejection of the service of process. The date of service of the service of process is the date
of the participant’s acceptance or rejection.
5. If a program participant has notified a person in writing, on a form prescribed by the
secretary, that the individual is a program participant and of the requirements of this section,
the person shall not knowingly disclose the program participant’s address, unless any of the
following:
Tue Dec 09 22:33:57 2025

Iowa Code 2026, Chapter 9E (42, 2)

§9E.5, ADDRESS CONFIDENTIALITY PROGRAM

4

a. The person to whom the address is disclosed also lives, works, or goes to school at the
address disclosed.
b. The program participant has provided written consent to disclosure of the program
participant’s name and address for the purpose for which the disclosure will be made.
6. This section does not apply to documents or records relating to real property. The
secretary shall offer a program participant information relating to the purchase of real
property utilizing limited liability companies, trusts, or other legal entities in order to protect
the participant’s identity for purposes of this program when purchasing real property.
2015 Acts, ch 96, §6, 17; 2025 Acts, ch 65, §3
Referred to in §9E.4, 9E.8
Subsection 3 amended

9E.6 Voting by program participant — absentee ballot.
1. a. A program participant who is an eligible elector may register to vote with the state
commissioner of elections, pursuant to section 48A.8, subsection 1. The name, address,
and telephone number of a program participant shall not be listed in the statewide voter
registration system.
b. A program participant’s voter registration shall not be open to challenge under section
48A.14 based on participation in the program and use of a designated address.
c. The state commissioner of elections or a county commissioner of elections shall cancel
a program participant’s voter registration upon becoming aware of the program participant’s
voter registration in another state.
2. a. A program participant who is otherwise eligible to vote may register with the state
commissioner of elections as an absentee voter for the length of a program participant’s
certification period. As soon as practicable before each election, the state commissioner
of elections shall determine the precinct in which the residential address of the program
participant is located and shall request and receive from the county commissioner of elections
the ballot for that precinct and shall forward the absentee ballot to the program participant
with the other materials for absentee balloting as required of the county commissioner of
elections by section 53.8.
b. The program participant shall complete the ballot and return it to the state
commissioner of elections, who shall review the ballot in the manner provided by sections
53.18 and 53.19 if the return envelope is received in the state commissioner’s office before
the polls close on election day or is clearly postmarked by an officially authorized postal
service or bears a postal service barcode traceable to a date of entry into the federal mail
system not later than the day before the election, as provided in section 53.17A. If the
materials comply with the requirements of section 53.18, the materials shall be certified
by the state commissioner of elections as the ballot of a program participant, and shall be
forwarded to the appropriate county commissioner of elections for tabulation by the special
voters precinct election board appointed pursuant to section 53.23.
c. The state commissioner of elections, to the extent practicable, shall administer this
section in accordance with the provisions of chapters 48A and 53 applicable to county
commissioners of elections.
3. a. An absentee ballot submitted by a program participant shall not be subject to a
challenge under section 49.79 or 53.31 if the challenge is based on the voter’s participation
in the program and use of a designated address.
b. In an election contested pursuant to chapter 57:
(1) The state commissioner of elections shall, upon the written request of a party
to the contest, certify the eligibility of a program participant to vote or the validity of a
program participant’s absentee ballot. A written request submitted under this paragraph “b”
must contain the voter’s four-digit personal identification number affixed to the program
participant’s absentee ballot.
(2) A deposition shall serve as testimony for a program participant. A court or tribunal

Tue Dec 09 22:33:57 2025

Iowa Code 2026, Chapter 9E (42, 2)

5

ADDRESS CONFIDENTIALITY PROGRAM, §9E.8

trying the contest shall coordinate with the secretary to obtain a deposition from a program
participant.
2015 Acts, ch 96, §7, 17; 2016 Acts, ch 1121, §1, 2; 2021 Acts, ch 12, §1, 73; 2025 Acts, ch
65, §4, 5; 2025 Acts, ch 123, §1
Referred to in §9E.3, 48A.8, 53.2
Subsection 1, NEW paragraph c
Subsection 2, paragraph a amended
Subsection 3, paragraph b, subparagraph (1) amended

9E.7 Confidentiality of information.
1. a. Except as otherwise provided in subsection 2 and in section 9E.8, information
collected, created, or maintained by the secretary related to applicants, eligible persons, and
program participants is confidential unless otherwise ordered by a court or released by the
lawful custodian of the records pursuant to state or federal law.
b. A program participant’s name and address maintained by a local governmental body
that is part of an ongoing investigation or inspection of an alleged health code, building
code, fire code, or city ordinance violation allegedly committed by the program participant is
confidential information.
2. Upon request from the department of public safety, the secretary may share
confidential information with the department of public safety. Such confidential information
received by the department of public safety may be released to a law enforcement agency
upon verification that the release will aid the law enforcement agency in responding to an
emergency situation, a criminal complaint, or an ongoing investigation.
3. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the dissemination of information relating
to the program to any agency or organization if necessary for carrying out the official duties
of the agency or organization, or to a person if disseminated for an official purpose, or to any
other person if necessary to protect a person or property from a threat of imminent serious
harm.
4. If a program participant has notified the program participant’s landlord in writing that
the individual is a program participant pursuant to this chapter, a local ordinance or the
landlord shall not allow the display of the program participant’s name at an address otherwise
protected under this chapter.
5. Upon request by a program participant, the assessor or the assessor’s staff shall redact
the requestor’s name contained in electronic documents that are displayed for public access
through an internet site. The assessor shall implement and maintain a process to facilitate
these requests. A fee shall not be charged for the administration of this subsection.
6. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the enforcement of a lease agreement
between a program participant and a program participant’s landlord.
2015 Acts, ch 96, §8, 17; 2016 Acts, ch 1016, §1; 2021 Acts, ch 183, §5; 2022 Acts, ch 1032,
§110, 111
9E.8 Disclosure of program participant address in legal proceedings — protective order.
1. If a program participant’s address is protected under section 9E.5, a person shall not
be compelled to disclose the program participant’s address during discovery or during a
proceeding before a court or other tribunal unless the court or other tribunal finds all of the
following:
a. A reasonable belief exists that the address is needed to obtain information or evidence
without which the investigation, prosecution, or litigation cannot proceed.
b. No other practicable means is available of obtaining the information or evidence from
any other source.
2. The court or other tribunal shall provide the program participant with notice
that disclosure of the program participant’s address is sought and provide the program
participant an opportunity to present evidence at a hearing regarding the potential harm to
the safety of the program participant if the program participant’s address is disclosed. In
determining whether to compel disclosure, the court or other tribunal shall consider whether
the potential harm to the safety of the program participant is outweighed by the interest in
disclosure relating to the investigation, prosecution, or litigation. In a criminal proceeding,
Tue Dec 09 22:33:57 2025

Iowa Code 2026, Chapter 9E (42, 2)

§9E.8, ADDRESS CONFIDENTIALITY PROGRAM

6

the court or other tribunal shall order disclosure of a program participant’s address if
protecting the program participant’s address would violate a defendant’s constitutional right
to confront a witness.
3. Disclosure of a program participant’s address under this section shall be limited
under the terms of the order by the court or other tribunal to ensure that the disclosure
and dissemination of the address will be no wider than necessary for the purposes of the
investigation, prosecution, or litigation.
4. This section does not prevent the court or other tribunal from issuing a protective order
to prevent disclosure of information other than the program participant’s address that could
reasonably lead to the discovery of the program participant’s location.
5. This section shall apply to a participant in an out-of-state address confidentiality
program substantially similar to the address confidentiality program established in this
chapter.
2016 Acts, ch 1016, §2
Referred to in §9E.7

Tue Dec 09 22:33:57 2025

Iowa Code 2026, Chapter 9E (42, 2)

