Safe at Home | Maggie Toulouse Oliver - New Mexico Secretary of State Voting & Elections Information on Voting and Elections in the State of New Mexico. Go Candidates & Campaigns Information on how to become a candidate and  about complying with campaign finance disclosure and reporting requirements. Go Legislation, Lobbying & Legal Resources Learn about Lobbying in our state. Find Legislative information to include Signed & Chaptered Bills and Legal Resources. Go Business Services Start a business, maintain a business or get general information on registered businesses in New Mexico. Go Notary & Apostille Become a notary, renew your notary commission, or obtain information about apostilles or certification of official documents. Go Commercial Services File UCC's, AG Liens, register a trademark or other commercial filings. Go Safe at Home New Mexico’s statewide address confidentiality program administered by the Secretary of State to assist victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking or similar types of crimes to receive mail using the Secretary of State’s address as a substitute for their own. Go Cybersecurity Learn about how we protect your voter and business information. You might also find a tip or two that will help you secure your information as well. Go About New Mexico Learn  about New Mexico Government, History, State Symbols,  State Songs and other important information about our state. Go Unofficial Election Results Results will become available after 7 PM on Election Day, November 2, 2021 and will be posted as they are received from the county offices. Election Results Homepage Election Day Voter Hotline Toll Free: 1-800-477-3632 Santa Fe: 505-827-3600 Option 2 The Election Day Voter Hotline is available on Election Day, November 2,  from 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM to assist voters with questions or concerns. Voter Resources Online voter resources include: NMVOTE.ORG Find a polling location View your sample ballot View your voter registration Voter FAQs 2021 Regular Local Election Candidate List Safe at Home Home Safe at Home Safe at Home Eligibility, FAQs & Resources Safe at Home Application Packet Voting & Domestic Violence Safe at Home The Secretary of State’s Safe at Home program (formerly known as the Confidential Address Program) allows survivors of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking to receive mail using the Secretary of State’s address as a substitute for their own, while keeping their actual address confidential. The Safe at Home program has two components. The Secretary of State’s office provides survivors who have moved to a new location, unknown to their abuser/stalker, with a substitute address they can use when interacting with state and local agencies. Safe at Home program participants are provided with a first-class mail forwarding service. The Safe at Home program helps survivors by denying abusers/stalkers the opportunity to use public records as a means to continue to abuse or stalk the participant. The Secretary of State’s office collects mail for Safe at Home participants from an undisclosed P.O. Box and then forwards the mail on to the participant’s actual, private address. When participants in the program enter into business relationships with state, city, and other agencies, the use of the fictitious address maintains the participant’s confidentiality. It also relieves those government agencies of the difficult and costly responsibilities of maintaining confidential records. In this way, Safe at Home participants are at a reduced risk from being tracked using public records. And though it’s important, this confidential program is only one step in a long-term, personal security strategy. Survivors can receive help in developing their personal security strategy and finding resources and ideas at a domestic violence or sexual assault program in their area. To learn more or to see if you qualify for the Safe at Home program, visit the “ Safe at Home Eligibility & FAQs ” page on our website. You can also call our office toll-free at 1-800-477-3632, email at Safe.SOS@sos.nm.gov , or send direct mail to P.O. Box 1888, Santa Fe, NM 87504. If you are a representative of a government agency or a domestic violence advocacy organization and would like information on how your agency can become involved in the Safe at Home program or obtain information on working with Safe at Home participants, application packets to individual agencies or organizations are available. Please call our toll-free number, 1-800-477-3632, if you are interested.  Upcoming Statewide Elections 2026 General Election: Tuesday, November 3, 2026