New Mexico Statutes Section 29-11-7 (2025) - Free forensic medical exams for victims of sexual crimes. :: 2025 New Mexico Statutes :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 N.M. Stat. (here) 2024 N.M. Stat. 2023 N.M. Stat. View All Versions 2025 New Mexico Statutes Chapter 29 - Law Enforcement Article 11 - Sexual Crimes Prosecution and Treatment Section 29-11-7 - Free forensic medical exams for victims of sexual crimes. Universal Citation: NM Stat § 29-11-7 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous The administrator shall: A. provide free forensic medical exams to victims of sexual crimes; B. arrange for victims of sexual crimes to obtain free forensic medical exams; or C. reimburse victims of sexual crimes for the cost of forensic medical exams, provided that: (1) the reimbursement covers the full cost of the forensic medical exam, without any deductible requirement or limit on the amount of the reimbursement; (2) the victim of a sexual crime is entitled to apply for reimbursement for a period of one year from the date of the forensic medical exam; (3) reimbursement is provided not later than ninety days after the administrator receives written notification of the expense incurred by the victim for the forensic medical exam; and (4) all victims of sexual crimes, including victims with limited or no English proficiency, are provided with information at the time of the forensic medical exam regarding how to obtain reimbursement for the cost of the exam. History: Laws 1995, ch. 91, § 2. Previous Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. New Mexico may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Sam Bernstein Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 883-9584 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Traffic Tickets, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Timothy Doman PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Appeals & Appellate Website Email Call Email Profile Joseph Brugnoli PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, White Collar Crime, Juvenile Law Website Email Call Email Profile Daniel T. Geherin PREMIUM (734) 263-2780 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Domestic Violence, Personal Injury, Civil Rights Website Email Call Email Profile Michael J. Vincent PREMIUM (734) 487-4970 Ypsilanti, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Scott Grabel Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Appeals & Appellate, Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new New Mexico Supreme Court - Criminal Law opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions