New Mexico Statutes Section 40-13B-3 (2025) - Confidential substitute address program; application. :: 2025 New Mexico Statutes :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 N.M. Stat. (here) 2024 N.M. Stat. 2023 N.M. Stat. View All Versions 2025 New Mexico Statutes Chapter 40 - Domestic Affairs Article 13B - Confidential Substitute Address Section 40-13B-3 - Confidential substitute address program; application. Universal Citation: NM Stat § 40-13B-3 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next A. The "confidential substitute address program" is created in the office of the secretary of state to provide a process by which a victim of domestic violence may protect the confidentiality of the victim's residential and delivery addresses in public records. B. An applicant, with the assistance of an application assistant, shall submit an application to the secretary of state on a form prescribed by the secretary of state. The application assistant's signature shall serve as recommendation that the applicant participate in the confidential substitute address program. C. An application shall be signed and dated by the applicant and the application assistant and shall include: (1) the applicant's name; (2) the applicant's statement that the applicant fears for the safety of the applicant, the applicant's child or another person in the applicant's household because of a threat of immediate or future harm; (3) the applicant's statement that the disclosure of the applicant's residential or delivery address would endanger the applicant, the applicant's child or another person in the applicant's household; (4) the applicant's statement that the applicant has confidentially relocated in the past ninety days or will relocate within the state in the next ninety days; (5) a designation of the secretary of state as the applicant's agent for the purpose of receiving mail, deliveries and service of process, notice or demand; (6) the names and ages of those persons in the applicant's household who will also be participants in the program if the applicant is admitted into the program. Each person in an applicant's household listed in the application shall be considered a separate participant in the program; (7) the applicant's residential and delivery addresses, if different, the confidentiality of which the applicant seeks to protect; (8) the applicant's telephone number and email address; and (9) the applicant's statement under penalty of perjury that the information contained in the application is true. History: Laws 2018, ch. 40, § 3; 2023, ch. 39, § 93. ANNOTATIONS The 2023 amendment, effective June 16, 2023, amended the confidential substitute address program to include members of an applicant's household; and in Subsection C, added a new Paragraph C(6) and redesignated former Paragraphs C(6) through C(8) as Paragraphs C(7) through C(9), respectively. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. New Mexico may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Akiva Goldman PREMIUM (877) 737-8800 Livonia, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Divorce, Personal Injury, Domestic Violence, Family Law, Immigration Law, Insurance Claims, Insurance Defense, Juvenile Law, Military Law, Probate, Traffic Tickets, Nursing Home Abuse, Animal & Dog Law, Real Estate Law, White Collar Crime, Communications & Internet Law, Construction Law, Appeals & Appellate, Products Liability, Consumer Law, Asbestos & Mesothelioma, Social Security Disability, Antitrust Law, Arbitration & Mediation, Bankruptcy, Workers' Compensation, Stockbroker & Investment Fraud, Education Law Website Email Call Email Profile Mark Snover PREMIUM (248) 258-0800 Bloomfield Hills, MI Divorce, Family Law Website Email Call Email Profile Sam Bernstein Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 883-9584 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Traffic Tickets, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new New Mexico Supreme Court opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions