New Mexico Statutes Section 31-22-7 (2025) - Eligibility for reparation. :: 2025 New Mexico Statutes :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 N.M. Stat. (here) 2024 N.M. Stat. 2023 N.M. Stat. View All Versions 2025 New Mexico Statutes Chapter 31 - Criminal Procedure Article 22 - Crime Victims Reparations Section 31-22-7 - Eligibility for reparation. Universal Citation: NM Stat § 31-22-7 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next A. If a person is injured or killed by an act or omission of another person coming within the criminal jurisdiction of the state after July 1, 1981, which act or omission includes a crime enumerated in Section 31-22-8 NMSA 1978, and upon application for reparation, the commission may award reparation in accordance with the Crime Victims Reparation Act: (1) to the victim; (2) in the case of the victim's death, to or for the benefit of any one or more of the deceased victim's dependents; or (3) to any individual who voluntarily assumes funeral or medical expenses of the victim. B. For the purpose of the Crime Victims Reparation Act, a person shall be deemed to have intentionally committed an act or omission constituting a crime, notwithstanding that by reason of age, insanity, drunkenness or otherwise the person was legally incapable of forming a criminal intent. C. In determining whether to make an order under this section, the commission may consider any circumstances it determines to be relevant. The commission shall consider the behavior of the victim and whether, because of provocation or otherwise, the victim bears responsibility for the act or omission constituting a crime that caused the victim's injury or death and shall reduce the amount of reparation in accordance with its assessment of the degree of responsibility attributable to the victim. D. An order may be made under this section whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of a crime enumerated in Section 31-22-8 NMSA 1978; provided an arrest has been made or the act or omission constituting a crime has been reported to the police in a reasonable time or the act or omission constituting a crime has been reported to a licensed medical, mental health or counseling provider, or tribal health provider. No order may be made under this section unless the commission finds that: (1) the act or omission constituting a crime did occur; (2) the injury or death of the victim resulted from the act or omission constituting a crime; and (3) the claimant or victim fully cooperated with the appropriate law enforcement agencies or the commission finds that the claimant or victim acted reasonably under the circumstances. E. Upon application from the district attorney of the appropriate district, the commission may suspend proceedings under the Crime Victims Reparation Act for such period as it deems desirable on the grounds that a prosecution for the act or omission constituting a crime has commenced or is imminent. History: Laws 1981, ch. 325, § 7; 1993, ch. 207, § 5; 2019, ch. 211, § 8. ANNOTATIONS The 2019 amendment, effective July 1, 2019, expanded the eligibility for reparation by including that the act or omission constituting a crime may be reported to a licensed medical, mental health or counseling provider, or tribal health provider, and provided that the commission may award reparation upon a finding that the victim fully cooperated with the appropriate law enforcement agencies or that the claimant acted reasonably under the circumstances; in Subsection D, after "police in a reasonable time", added "or the act or omission constituting a crime has been reported to a licensed medical, mental health or counseling provider, or tribal health provider", and in Paragraph D(3), after "law enforcement agencies", added "or the commission finds that the claimant or victim acted reasonably under the circumstances". The 1993 amendment, effective June 18, 1993, substituted "31-22-8 NMSA 1978" for "9 of that act" in the introductory language of Subsection A and for "9 of the Crime Victims Reparation Act" in the first sentence of Subsection D; and made stylistic changes in Subsection A(3) and in Subsection E. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. New Mexico may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Sam Bernstein Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 883-9584 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Traffic Tickets, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile William McCririe PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Domestic Violence, Juvenile Law Website Email Call Email Profile Timothy Doman PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Appeals & Appellate Website Email Call Email Profile Michael J. Vincent PREMIUM (734) 487-4970 Ypsilanti, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Scott Grabel Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Appeals & Appellate, Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime Website Email Call Email Profile Joseph Brugnoli PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, White Collar Crime, Juvenile Law Website Email Call Email Profile Jonathan Jones Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (248) 310-3399 Romulus, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, Traffic Tickets Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions