Title 12 Criminal Procedure Chapter 25 Criminal Injuries Compensation R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-21 § 12-25-21. Nature of compensation. (a) The office may award compensation under this chapter for: (1) Expenses actually and reasonably incurred as a result of the personal injury or death
            of the victim; (2) Pecuniary loss to the dependents of the deceased victim; (3) Any other pecuniary loss resulting from the personal injury or death of the victim,
            the amount of which the office finds upon the evidence to be reasonable and necessary; (4) The administrator may issue a supplemental award for compensation for additional medical
            expenses, including psychiatric care and mental health counseling, provided that the
            victim provides proper documentation that the additional medical expenses have been
            actually and reasonably incurred as a direct result of the personal injury. The administrator
            shall issue a supplemental award as long as the total award does not exceed the maximum
            award allowable under this chapter; (5) The administrator may issue an award for expenses related to psychiatric care and
            mental health counseling for a parent, spouse, sibling or child of a victim who dies
            as a direct result of a violent crime as defined in this chapter, provided that the
            parent, spouse, sibling or child provide proper documentation that the psychiatric
            care and mental health counseling have been actually and reasonably incurred as a
            direct result of the death of the victim; and (6) The administrator may issue an award for expenses related to psychiatric care and
            mental health counseling for a secondary victim, provided that the secondary victim
            provides proper documentation that the psychiatric care and mental health counseling
            have been actually and reasonably incurred as a direct result of witnessing the homicide
            of a victim or the domestic violence incident against a victim. An award issued to
            a secondary victim for psychiatric care and mental health counseling shall not exceed
            one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500) and shall not be paid upon a secondary
            victim reaching the age of eighteen (18). (b) In determining the amount of the judgment or order approving a settlement, the office
            shall take into consideration the rates and amounts payable for injuries and death
            under other statutes of this state and of the United States, and the amount of revenue
            in the violent crimes indemnity account and the number and nature of claims pending
            against it. The office shall make every effort to ensure that compensation awards
            are paid within six (6) months of the date of application. History of Section. P.L. 1996, ch. 434, § 3; P.L. 1999, ch. 125, § 2; P.L. 1999, ch. 128, § 2; P.L. 2008,
               ch. 125, § 1; P.L. 2008, ch. 205, § 1; P.L. 2017, ch. 110, § 1; P.L. 2017, ch. 174,
               § 1.