Address Confidentiality Program - Rhode Island - Gregg M. Amore Address Confidentiality Program Address Confidentiality Program The goal of the Address Confidentiality Program (ACP/Program) is to help victims of domestic violence,
            stalking, sexual assault, and trafficking and/or abuse as defined by RI Gen. Laws
                §42-164-2 who have
            relocated or are about to relocate, in their effort to keep persons who have committed domestic violence or
            abuse or who threaten the applicant or the applicant’s child or ward with domestic violence or abuse from
            finding them. The Program has two components: a substitute address service and a protected records service. These services
            limit a perpetrator’s ability to access public information that could identify the new location of a victim
            who is in the Program. This is not a witness protection program; rather, it is a mail forwarding service. Substitute Address Service Participants are given the Program’s Providence-based Post Office Box (PO Box) address for their use. The
            substitute address has no relation to the participant’s actual address. All participants use the same PO Box
            as designated by the Program. First-class mail and service of process is sent to the PO Box and then
            forwarded, at no cost, to the participant’s actual location. Participants can use the substitute address when creating records with state or local government agencies.
            Program participants can vote, obtain a driver’s license, get married, and register births without
            disclosing their actual residence location to the abusive perpetrator. Potential applicants should ensure they can manage with a 2-5-day mail delay to allow for mail forwarding. Eligibility Requirements To be eligible for the Program, an applicant must be a victim of domestic violence and/or abuse and meet all
            the following conditions: be a resident of Rhode Island fear for their safety or their children’s or ward’s safety reside at or will reside at a location in Rhode Island that is not known by the person who committed
                domestic violence or abuse, or threatens the applicant or the applicant’s child or ward with domestic
                violence or abuse agree to not disclose their actual address to the person who committed domestic violence or abuse, or
                threatens the applicant or the applicant’s child or ward with domestic violence or abuse be willing to designate the Department of State as their agent to receive legal documents and
                first-class mail Program Procedures The Rhode Island Department of State (the Department) will review the properly completed application and
            certify an applicant as a Program participant for five years. The Program participant will receive
            notification from the Department that will include an identification number. The identification number is
            unique to each Program participant. When using the substitute address, the identification number must be
            included in the address. Because mail from all participants comes to the same PO Box, the identification
            number is an important identifying item and helps to expedite the mail forwarding process. Participant Responsibilities Once accepted into the Program, participants should use the substitute address when creating records
                and accessing services with state and local government agencies. Participants are required to notify the Department of any changes in name, address, or phone number to
                remain in the Program. Failure to notify the Department of any changes may result in removal from the
                Program. Failure to promptly notify the Department of changes to the applicant's contact information, including
                address, email address and telephone number, may cause a delay in the applicant's receipt of legal
                documents, including notices of upcoming court hearings for divorce, child custody, or criminal matters,
                which may result in negative legal ramifications for the applicant, including a possible default for
                failure to respond to court papers. Renewal At the end of the five-year period, participants will be notified that they can be removed from the Program
            or that they can renew the address. Removal from the Program If the victim no longer meets the eligibility requirements or wishes to be removed from the Program, they may
            update the Program by email or mail. Government Agency Responsibilities State and local government agencies must accept the substitute address for any public record unless the
            agency has received prior approval from the Department for a waiver or statutory exception. Agency employees
            may request verification of Program participation by asking for the participant’s identification number. The
            participant’s identification number is not a legal form of identification. If you have any issues with a governmental agency accepting the substitute address, you may contact [email protected] or 401-222-5149. How to Apply Click here to download the
            application Applications should be sent to: Department of State Attention: ACP PO Box 6888 Providence, RI 02940 Applicants can contact the Department by email, phone, or in-person for help filling out the application. For
            assistance, please email [email protected] or call 401-222-5149. For
            in-person assistance, you can visit 148 W.
            River St., Providence. Office hours are Monday-Friday 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. More Resources Rhode Island Coalition Against Domestic Violence Statewide Victims of Crime Helpline 1.800.494.8100 Free - Confidential - 24/7 support and advocacy for those impacted by crimes of violence