120-RICR-00-00-2

TITLE 120 – TREASURY DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 00 – N/A
SUBCHAPTER 00 – N/A
PART 2 – Rules and Regulations Pertaining to the Crime Victim Compensation
Program

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section 2.1 Introduction

Page: 2

Section 2.2 Purpose

Page: 2

Section 2.3 Scope

Page: 2

Section 2.4 Definitions

Page: 2

Section 2.5 Transition Rules

Page: 6

Section 2.6 Persons Eligible for Compensation

Page: 8

Section 2.7 Eligibility Requirements

Page: 8

Section 2.8 Compensable Expenses

Page: 11

Section 2.9 Limitations on Compensation

Page: 27

Section 2.10 Appeals

Page: 30

Section 2.11 Obligations of the Applicant

Page: 31

Section 2.12 Recovery from Offender

Page: 33

Section 2.13 Confidentiality of Records

Page: 33

2.1

Introduction

A.

These Rules and Regulations pertaining to the Crime Victim Compensation
Program are promulgated pursuant to R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-18(c) and are
established for the purpose of effectuating the provisions and overall purpose of
the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act of 1972, the Criminal Injuries Act of 1996,
and the 1999 amendments to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act of 1996.

B.

In accordance with the provisions of R.I. Gen. Laws § 42-35-2.9(b), in the
development of the regulations, consideration was given to:
1.

alternative approaches to the regulations;

2.

duplication or overlap with other state regulations; and

3.

any significant economic impact on small business as defined in R.I. Gen.
Laws Chapter 42-35.

4.

Based on the available information, no known alternative approach,
duplication or overlap was identified. The health, safety, and welfare of the
public override any economic impact which may be incurred from these
proposed regulations.

2.2

Purpose

A.

The General Treasurer of Rhode Island promulgates these regulations related to
financial compensation for victims of violent crime pursuant to the authority under
R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-18(b).

2.3

Scope

A.

These regulations apply to applications for financial compensation filed under R.I.
Gen. Laws §§ 12-25-1 et seq.

2.4

Definitions

A.

“Administrator” means the program administrator of the 1996 Act, and the 1999
amendments to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act of 1996, who issues
notices of award or denial pursuant to R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-18. The
Administrator is charged with the duty of and granted the power to effectuate the
provisions and overall purpose of the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act of
1972, the Criminal Injuries Act of 1996, and the 1999 amendments to the
Criminal Injuries Compensation Act of 1996 in an efficient and equitable manner.

B.

“Application” means an application for compensation under R.I. Gen. Laws §§
12-25-1 et. seq. on an application form provided by the office as in effect from
time to time.

C.

“Applicant” means a person who files an application for compensation under R.I.
Gen. Laws §§ 12-25-1 et. seq. An application may be filed by a person eligible
for compensation as defined in § 2.6 of this Part, or by a parent or legal guardian
of any such person.

D.

“Child” means any unmarried person who is under eighteen (18) years of age
and includes a stepchild or an adopted child.

E.

“Court” means Superior Court.

F.

“Crime” means an act committed by a person which, if committed by a mentally
competent, criminally responsible adult who has no legal exemption or defense,
would constitute a crime; provided, however, that such act involves the
application of force or violence or the threat of force or violence by the offender
upon the victim, resulting in physical or psychological injury to the victim.

G.

1.

The word crime shall include any of the offenses specified in R.I. Gen.
Laws § 12-25-20 inclusive, any violation of any provision of R.I. Gen. Laws
§§ 31-27-1 through 31-27-2.2, inclusive, and any violation of R.I. Gen.
Laws § 31-27-2.6, and any conduct that would constitute a violation of R.I.
Gen. Laws § 15-15-3.

2.

The word crime shall apply to an act committed against any person within
the physical confines of Rhode Island or within the maritime jurisdiction of
the state of Rhode Island, including land subject to federal jurisdiction.

3.

The word crime shall also apply to an act which occurs against a resident
of Rhode Island in a state which does not have a crime victim
compensation program of any kind. If a Rhode Island resident is injured or
killed outside of the state of Rhode Island, the victim first must apply for
compensation in the state, possession, territory or district of the United
States in which the offense occurred. In the event that a Rhode Island
resident is denied compensation in the state, possession, territory or
district of the United States in which the offense occurred, he/she may
apply for compensation with the office in accordance with the provisions of
the 1999 amendments to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act of 1996.

4.

The word crime shall also apply to an act of terrorism as defined in 18
U.S.C. § 2331 that occurs outside the State of Rhode Island to any victim
who had his or her residence in this state at the time the offense occurred
who is injured or killed by an act of terrorism occurring either outside of the
United States, as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 2331, or within the United States
as referred to in 42 U.S.C. § 10603b.

5.

The word crime does not include death by suicide.

“Dependent” means a person wholly or partially dependent upon the income of
the victim at the time of his or her death or would have been so dependent but for

the incapacity due to the injury from which the death resulted and shall include a
child of the victim born after the death of the victim. The paternity of a child born
after the death of the victim must have been established by a court of competent
jurisdiction and the child’s birth registered pursuant to R.I. Gen. Laws § 23-3-10
or R.I. Gen. Laws § 23-3-15.
H.

“Medical Forensic Examination” means an examination of a sexual assault victim
completed by a licensed health care provider who has specialized education and
clinical experience in the collection of forensic evidence and treatment of these
victims, which includes:
1.

Gathering information from the victim for the medical forensic history;

2.

An examination;

3.

Documentation of biological and physical finding, and collection of
evidence from the patient; and

4.

Documentation of findings.

I.

“Minor” means a person under the age of eighteen (18) years old.

J.

“Offender” means an adult or juvenile who commits the crime for which the
Applicant seeks compensation.

K.

“Office” means the Crime Victim Compensation Program within the Office of the
General Treasurer for the State of Rhode Island, as established pursuant to R.I.
Gen. Laws §§ 12-25-1 et. seq.

L.

“Pecuniary loss” means:
1.

In the event the victim suffers personal injury:
a.

Out-of-pocket medical expenses (including psychiatric care) for
which the victim is not compensated by any other source;

b.

Hospital expenses for which the victim is not compensated by any
other source;

c.

Loss of past earnings for which the victim is not compensated by
any other source;

d.

Loss of future earnings because of a disability resulting from
personal injury for which the victim is not compensated by any
other source and for which the victim has demonstrated, to the
satisfaction of the Administrator, a complete inability to perform
gainful employment; and

e.

2.

3.

Reasonable and necessary expenses directly related to:
(1)

The delivery or obtainment of necessary medical treatment;

(2)

The delivery or obtainment of necessary counseling
services; and

(3)

Necessary participation in criminal justice proceedings.

In the event of the victim’s death:
a.

Funeral, memorial, or burial expenses for which the victim’s estate
is not compensated by any other source;

b.

Loss of support to the victim’s dependent(s) for which the
dependent(s) are not compensated by any other source; and

c.

Reasonable and necessary expenses directly related to:
(1)

Participation in funeral, memorial, and/or burial services;

(2)

The delivery or obtainment of necessary counseling
services; or

(3)

Necessary participation in criminal justice proceedings.

Any other expenses actually and necessarily incurred as a direct and
proximate result of the personal injury or death for which the victim or
their estate is not compensated by any other source, excluding damage
to real or personal property

M.

“Personal injury” means actual physical bodily harm, or mental or nervous shock,
and a pregnancy resulting from a sexual attack.

N.

“Relative” means a spouse, parent, grandparent, stepfather, stepmother, child,
grandchild, brother, sister, half-brother, half-sister, and a spouse’s parents.

O.

“Resident” means any person who has his or her residence within the state of
Rhode Island.

P.

“Secondary victim” means a child who suffers an emotional injury as a direct
result of witnessing a homicide or incident of domestic violence.

Q.

“Sexual Assault Nurse Examination” means a medical forensic examination
conducted by a Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner.

R.

“Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner” means a registered nurse who has completed
a sexual assault nurse examiner (“SANE”) training program that meets the

Forensic Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner Guidelines established by the
International Association of Forensic Nurses.
S.

“State” means the District of Columbia, the fifty (50) states, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, and the United States’ territories and possessions.

T.

“Treasurer” means the General Treasurer of the State of Rhode Island or his or
her designee.

U.

“Victim” means a victim is either:
1.

2.

V.

a person who is an involuntary participant in a criminal act or totally
unaware that he or she is a potential participant in a crime, who suffers
personal physical or psychological injury or death by any act of a person
or persons as a result of:
a.

any of the offenses specified in R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-20;

b.

which act occurs within the physical confines of the state of Rhode
Island; or

c.

which act occurs within the maritime jurisdiction of the state of
Rhode Island; or

a resident of the state of Rhode Island who is a victim of an act of
terrorism as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 2331, occurring outside the United
States or within the United States as referred to in 42 U.S.C. § 10603b.

“Violent felonious criminal conduct” means criminally injurious conduct, which, if
proven beyond a reasonable doubt, would constitute a felony under the laws of
the state of Rhode Island, any other state, or the United States, and includes
those crimes specified in R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-20 as follows:
1.

Assault with intent to commit murder, robbery, or rape;

2.

Assault with a dangerous weapon;

3.

Assault and battery;

4.

Mayhem;

5.

Indecent assault and battery on a child under thirteen (13) years of age;

6.

Arson or statutory burning;

7.

Kidnapping;

8.

Robbery;

9.

Murder;

10.

Manslaughter;

11.

First or second degree sexual assault;

12.

Child molestation, 1st or 2nd degree;

13.

Stalking pursuant to § 11-59-2;

14.

Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs;

15.

Refusal by a driver to submit to a chemical test for alcohol or drugs in
immediate aftermath of a collision;

16.

Driving so as to endanger, resulting in death, pursuant to R.I. Gen. Laws §
31-27-1;

17.

Driving so as to endanger, resulting in personal injury, pursuant to R.I.
Gen. Laws § 31-27-1;

18.

Any other crime excluding motor vehicle offenses other than those
enumerated in this section, which results in personal injury or death;

19.

Failure to stop by a driver in circumstances which result in the serious
bodily injury or death of any person, pursuant to R.I. Gen. Laws § 31-26-1.

W.

“1972 Act” means the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act of 1972, established
pursuant to R.I. Gen. Laws §§ 12-25-1 through 12-25-15.

X.

“1996 Act” means the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act of 1996, and the 1999
amendments to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act of 1996, established
pursuant to R.I. Gen. Laws §§ 12-25-16 through 12-25-31.

2.5

Transition Rules

A.

New cases filed on or after the effective date of the 1996 Act, August 21, 1996,
or on or after the effective date of the 1999 amendments to the Criminal Injuries
Compensation Act of 1996, September 1, 1999, shall do so through the Criminal
Injuries Act of 1996, as amended, established pursuant to R.I. Gen. Laws §§ 1225-16 through 12-25-31.

B.

All claimants with cases filed pursuant to the 1972 Act awaiting decisions from
the court shall have the option of transferring their cases to the 1996 Act at any
time prior to receiving a decision on their case from the court under the 1972 Act.
Any request for transfer to the 1996 Act shall be final and irrevocable. No victim
shall be permitted to have claims pending under both the 1972 and 1996 Acts for
the same incident.

C.

Claims shall be paid in the chronological order in which decisions are made
under either the 1972 or 1996 Acts or the 1999 amendments to the Criminal
Injuries Compensation Act of 1996. Claims filed under the 1972 Act shall be paid
according to the date the judgment is ordered by the court and claims filed under
the 1996 Act or the 1999 amendments to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act
of 1996, shall be paid according to the date a final decision is reached on the
claim. In either case, whether the claim for compensation was filed under the
1972 Act, the 1996 Act or the 1999 amendments to the Criminal Injuries
Compensation Act of 1996, each claim shall be paid in chronological order
according to the date of the original judgment or the date of the original decision,
notwithstanding any request for reconsideration or appeal. The office shall stay
payment on any original judgment or original decision pending the outcome of a
request for reconsideration or appeal.

D.

Those claimants who filed claims prior to August 21, 1996, and voluntarily
transfer their claims to the 1996 Act shall abide by all the provisions of the 1996
Act, with the following exceptions:

E.

1.

They shall be eligible for attorney fees as provided for in the 1972 Act,
pursuant to R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-8. The basis for determining attorneys’
fees shall be the amount which would be awarded to the victim under the
1996 Act. The amount of compensation for attorney fees shall not exceed
fifteen percent (15%) of the total amount awarded to the claimant, or two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00), whichever is less.

2.

The requirement that the action for compensation be commenced within
one (1) year after the date of personal injury or death is extended to three
(3) years, and shall be considered satisfied as long as the requirement
was met in the original filing for compensation under the 1972 Act.

3.

The requirement that no compensation be awarded for an injury or death
resulting from a crime which was not reported to the appropriate law
enforcement authority within three (3) days of its occurrence is extended
to fifteen (15) days of its occurrence.

Those claimants with claims currently pending under the 1972 or 1996 Acts or
whose claims arose under the 1972 or 1996 Acts but have not yet filed, may
voluntarily transfer or file their claims in the first instance under the program
established pursuant to the 1999 amendments to the Criminal Injuries
Compensation Act of 1996. Those claimants as referenced herein shall abide by
and be subject to all the provisions of the program established pursuant to the
1999 amendments to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act of 1996. Any
claimant transferring his/her claim under the 1972 Act shall be required to
dismiss his/her action pending in the Superior Court and file an application for
compensation under R.I. Gen. Laws §§ 12-25-1 et. seq. on an application form
provided by the office as in effect from time to time.

F.

The Administrator shall have the discretion to pay claims out of chronological
order when:
1.

the Applicant, victim, party or entity entitled to compensation from the fund
has agreed to receive a reduced payment in return for expedited payment;
or where the Administrator finds that the Applicant has demonstrated
compelling circumstances to warrant expedited payment of an award or a
portion thereof. The Administrator shall set forth, in writing, the reasons for
expediting payment in these situations.

2.6

Persons Eligible for Compensation or Reimbursement

A.

Persons Eligible: The following persons are eligible for compensation or
reimbursement:

B.

1.

victims as defined in § 2.4(U) of this Part;

2.

secondary victims as defined in § 2.4(P) of this Part;

3.

dependents and relatives of a victim who dies as a direct result of violent
crime as provided in R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-19(b)(3);

4.

parent, spouse, minor sibling, or minor child of a victim who dies as a
direct result of a violent crime as provided in R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-21
(a)(5);

5.

legal guardians of the victim or secondary victim;

6.

child advocate as provided in R.I. Gen. Laws § 42-73-9.1;

7.

legal representatives of the victim’s estate in the case of the victim’s
death; and

8.

parent or guardian of a victim who at the time of the crime;
a.

was unmarried;

b.

was at least eighteen (18) years old but not beyond the month of
their twenty-third (23rd) birthday; and

c.

was enrolled as a full-time student at a college or university, as
verified by a Student Attendance Certification form.

Persons Ineligible: The following persons are ineligible for compensation:
1.

Applicant attempting to derive rights from a person who was not an eligible
victim pursuant to R.I. Gen. Laws §§ 12-25-1 et. seq.;

2.

persons injured while serving time in any federal, state, county or city jail,
prison, correctional facility or criminal institution;

3.

persons injured during the performance of their duty whose occupations
inherently entail high risk hazards. Such occupations include, but are not
limited to, police officers, correctional officers, security guards, and
firefighters.

2.7

Eligibility Requirements

A.

A person eligible for compensation must satisfy each of the following conditions:
1.

Timely Filing of Application: An application for compensation pursuant to
the 1996 Act must be filed within one (1) year after the date of the
personal injury or death of the victim if the personal injury or death
occurred prior to September 1, 1999. An application for compensation
pursuant to the 1999 amendments to the Criminal Injuries Compensation
Act of 1996 must be filed within three (3) years after the date of the
personal injury or death of the victim if the personal injury or death
occurred on or after September 1, 1999. The filing period shall commence
on the date the crime was committed, except in the following
circumstances;
a.

If the victim or secondary victim was a minor when the crime was
committed and the crime did not result in the death of the minor,
that is, the victim suffered personal injury, the filing period shall not
commence until the victim reaches the age of eighteen. For
applications based on the personal injury of a minor victim, the
application must be filed within one year after the date on which the
minor victim reaches the age of eighteen if the personal injury
occurred between August 21, 1996 and August 31, 1999. If the
personal injury to the minor victim or secondary victim occurred on
or after September 1, 1999, then the application must be filed within
three years after the date on which the minor victim or secondary
victim reaches the age of eighteen. For applications based on the
death of a minor victim, the application must be filed within one
year after the date of death of the minor, if the death occurred
between August 21, 1996 and August 31, 1999, or within three
years after the date of death of the minor if the death occurred or
on or after September 1, 1999;

b.

If the Applicant did not discover the act which constitutes a crime
until more than one year after the crime was committed, the filing
period shall not commence until the Applicant discovered or, in
exercise of reasonable diligence, should have discovered, the act
which constitutes a crime, provided, however, that in such cases,
the crime for which the Applicant seeks compensation must have

resulted in the issuance of a criminal complaint, indictment or
criminal information, or other judicial determination of probable
cause that an act constituting a crime occurred;

2.

c.

office may allow an application for compensation to be filed with the
office after the expiration of the statute of limitations if the victim or
secondary victim was of unsound mind or for good cause shown.
Delay resulting from the lack of knowledge of the filing
requirements of R.I. Gen. Laws §§ 12-25-1, et seq. shall not
constitute good cause.

d.

If more than one of the exceptions described in § 2.7(A)(1) of this
Part applies, the application may be filed within the longest time
period permitted by § 2.7(A)(1) of this Part.

Reporting of Crime to Law Enforcement or receiving Medical Forensic
Examination: An Applicant must demonstrate that the crime for which
he/she seeks compensation was reported to police or other appropriate
law enforcement authorities, to an agency or entity obligated by law to
report complaints of criminal misconduct to law enforcement authorities,or
as otherwise specified below in §2.7(A)(2) of this Part.
a.

Appropriate law enforcement authorities to whom a crime may be
reported include: federal, state or local police; school, college or
university police.

b.

Crimes involving minor victims may be reported to the Department
of Children, Youth and Families pursuant to the reporting
requirements of R.I. Gen. Laws §§ 40-11-3 and 40-11-3.1. All other
crimes must be reported as specified in § 2.7(A)(2) of this Part.

c.

The reporting of a crime to a court through a citizen application for
a restraining order under R.I. Gen. Laws § 15-15-3 accompanied by
an affidavit in support of the application for protection, or through a
citizen application for a criminal complaint, shall constitute a report
to law enforcement authorities.

d.

Reports to private security personnel, rape crisis centers, rescue
personnel, or the Crime Victim Compensation Program do not
constitute reports to law enforcement authorities.

e.

Victims of sexual assault may submit documentary evidence of
their Sexual Assault Nurse Examination or other qualifying Medical
Forensic Examination consistent with the requirements of R.I. Gen.
Laws §12-25-22.

3.

4.

Timeliness of Report to Law Enforcement Authorities: An Applicant must
demonstrate that the crime was reported within fifteen (15) days of its
occurrence except where the Administrator finds good cause for delay.
a.

A crime is reported within fifteen days of its occurrence if it is
reported within fifteen days of when the crime was discovered, or
reasonably should have been discovered.

b.

Good cause for delay shall include, but not be limited to, delay
caused by physical or psychological incapacity which prevented the
making of a report; or by reasonable fear of retaliation by the
offender or others.

c.

Delay resulting from a belief that law enforcement authorities will
not investigate the crime, or delay resulting from lack of knowledge
that an award under R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-1 et. seq. is contingent
upon reporting the crime to law enforcement authorities, does not
constitute good cause for delay.

d.

A finding of good cause for delay does not excuse the reporting
requirement which must be satisfied as a condition of receiving
compensation.

e.

Victims of sexual assault may submit documentary evidence that
their Sexual Assault Nurse Examination or other qualifying Medical
Forensic Examination was conducted withing fifteen (15) days, in
each case, of the occurrence of the crime.

Cooperation with Law Enforcement: A victim must cooperate with the
reasonable requests of law enforcement agencies and personnel in the
investigation and prosecution of the crime.
a.

Victim’s obligations: Cooperation with law enforcement agencies
and personnel includes reporting the crime to law enforcement
authorities; assisting in identifying the suspect; and complying with
all reasonable requests of law enforcement agencies and personnel
for information and assistance. Cooperation with law enforcement
shall also include applying for the issuance of a criminal complaint
in circumstances in which police did not witness the incident and
have no right of arrest, provided that in such circumstance, police
records clearly demonstrate that the victim was advised of his right
to apply for the issuance of a criminal complaint.

2.8

Compensable Expenses

A.

The following expenses are compensable in accordance with the following
requirements:

1.

General Requirements.
a.

No compensation shall be awarded in excess of twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) plus any attorney fees awarded
pursuant to a successful request for reconsideration to the
Treasurer or Treasurer’s designee or pursuant to a successful
appeal to the Superior Court. If two or more Applicants are eligible
for compensation arising out of a crime committed against one
victim for the same crime, their applications shall be joined under
one application for compensation and each Applicant shall be
entitled to receive compensation to the extent of out-of-pocket loss
and in proportion to the out-of-pocket loss of every other Applicant,
but in no event shall the total compensation exceed the maximum
allowable under the statute.

b.

In determining the amount of the award, the Administrator, pursuant
to the authority under R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-18(b) to promulgate
all rules and regulations to effectuate the provisions and overall
purpose of the 1972 and 1996 Acts and the 1999 amendments to
the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act of 1996, shall take into
consideration the rates and amounts payable for injuries and death
under other statues of this state and of the United States, and the
amount of revenue in the violent crimes indemnity account and the
number and nature of claims pending against it.

c.

Fund of Last Resort: The Criminal Injuries Compensation Act is a
fund of last resort. An Applicant must demonstrate that his/her
compensable losses or legal liability exceed reimbursements or
eligibility for reimbursement or compensation from any other
collateral resource including, but not limited to, all resources and
sources of payment or reimbursement listed in § 2.11(B)(5) of this
Part and R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-23(b). Awards for compensation
shall be reduced by all amounts reimbursed, reimbursable or
otherwise compensable by any other source. No third party which
has provided any compensation to an Applicant shall have any
claims against the office or the Program or to the funds awarded to
the Applicant pursuant to R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-24.

d.

Elderly Victims: The Administrator will make every effort to
accelerate decisions on awards for compensation and payments on
applications filed by victims over the age of sixty (60).

e.

Order of Payments: Applications shall be paid in the chronological
order in which decisions are made.

f.

Reopening: An application for compensation may be reopened or
the Administrator may issue a supplemental award for additional

medical expenses, including psychiatric care and mental health
counseling expenses, and lost earnings, provided that the Applicant
provides proper documentation that the additional expenses have
been actually and reasonably incurred as a direct result of the
personal injury. The Administrator shall issue a supplemental award
as long as the total award does not exceed the maximum award
allowable under this statute.
g.

The Administrator may issue an award for expenses related to
psychiatric care and mental health counseling for a parent, spouse,
sibling or child of a victim who dies as a direct result of a violent
crime, provided that the parent, spouse, sibling or child provides
proper documentation that the psychiatric care and mental health
counseling have been actually and reasonably incurred as a direct
result of the death of the victim.

h.

Property losses are not compensable expenses.

i.

No interest shall be included in or added to an award for
compensation.

j.

No compensation shall be awarded to a secondary victim:

k.
2.

(1)

in a total amount in excess one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00); and

(2)

for expenses other than those incurred for reasonable and
necessary mental health counseling and psychiatric care
that have been actually and reasonably incurred as a direct
result of witnessing the homicide of a victim or the domestic
violence incident against a victim.

Compensable expenses shall be supported by proper
documentation.

Medical Expenses: A victim shall be eligible for compensation for
reasonable medical care obtained as a result of the crime.
a.

Compensation for medical expenses is limited to services, supplies
and equipment that are medically necessary and reasonably
incurred as a direct result of the crime. Compensation shall not be
awarded for unrelated conditions or services, or for preexisting
conditions except to the extent they were exacerbated by the crime.
The cost of repair or replacement of eyeglasses damaged or
destroyed as the direct result of a crime shall have a maximum
award amount of two hundred dollars ($200.00). Compensation
shall not be awarded on the basis of an estimate of services to be
rendered. However, where the medical provider requires pre-

authorization for payments for medical treatment, the Administrator
may authorize payment for those medical services upon a showing
by the medical provider that:

b.

c.

(1)

the medical services to be rendered are related to the crime
for which an application for compensation was filed with the
office; and

(2)

the medical services are reasonable and necessary to
correct the injury to the victim; and

(3)

the fees and costs associated with the proposed medical
services are reasonable and in conjunction with R.I. Gen.
Laws § 12-25-19(h). In addition, compensation shall not be
awarded for photocopying of medical records or for the
writing of medical reports.

The Applicant must demonstrate an actual out-of-pocket loss or
legal liability for payment of compensable medical expenses,
including the cost of eyeglasses as stated in § 2.8(A)(2)(a) of this
Part, which are not reimbursed or reimbursable by any other
source. In order to make this demonstration, the Applicant must:
(1)

if the victim is covered by a private insurance provider,
submit all bills for payment to the insurance provider;

(2)

exhaust all other sources of public reimbursement including,
but not limited to, Medicaid, Medicare, workers’
compensation, social security, veterans benefits, community
free service, charity care, free care or uncompensated care;

(3)

comply with all reasonable requests by the office to secure
information and verifications necessary to investigate the
application.

Upon request by the office, medical providers, including those
rendering services for the replacement of eyeglasses as stated in §
2.8(A)(2)(a) of this Part, shall cooperate with the office in the
investigation of applications for compensation and are required to:
(1)

verify that the services rendered are medically necessary
and reasonably incurred as a direct result of the crime.
Where medical services or therapy extend beyond six (6)
months or thirty (30) sessions (whichever is greater), the
office may, as a condition of further payment, require current
verification that the services are medically necessary and
reasonably incurred as a direct result of the crime;

(2)

provide current billing and balance information, including
information about amounts covered by insurance, public
benefits or other sources, and current information about any
amounts paid and by whom;

(3)

certify whether the services rendered are reimbursable by
Medicaid or any other public or private insurance source,
including, but not limited to, community free service, charity
care, free care or uncompensated care;

(4)

in the case of hospitals, assist the Applicant in applying for
community free service, charity care, free care or
uncompensated care.

d.

All medical providers, including those rendering services for the
replacement of eyeglasses as stated in § 2.8(A)(2)(a) of this Part,
must be licensed by the Rhode Island Board of Medical Licensure
and Discipline or an equivalent state licensing authority, or must be
certified by the recognized national certification body for that
profession.

e.

The Administrator may authorize an award for outstanding medical
expenses payable directly to the medical provider, but only if the
provider has fully cooperated with the office in the investigation of
the claim. Otherwise, awards shall be made payable solely to the
Applicant.

f.

Where compensable medical services have been rendered, any
award made payable to the medical provider or jointly to the
Applicant and the medical provider shall be based on the current
final adjustment to charge ratio approved by the Department of
Labor and Training pursuant to R.I. Gen. Laws §§ 28-33-1 et seq.
and applied by the Rhode Island Workers’ Compensation Unit in
establishing payout ratios for inpatient charges, emergency room
charges, and ambulatory surgery charges. Amounts for all other
medical services shall be based on the current Rhode Island
Workers’ Compensation Medical Fee Schedule. If the provider
employs a sliding scale fee structure for any category of patient
service, the award shall not exceed the amount the Applicant would
be charged if he/she qualified under the provider’s sliding scale fee
structure.

g.

Any medical provider that receives payment from the Office of the
General Treasurer for medical services, supplies or equipment
pursuant to an award under R.I. Gen. Laws §§ 12-25-1 et. seq.
shall, as a condition of the receipt of such payment, accept such
payment as discharging in full any and all obligations of the victim

or Applicant to pay, reimburse or compensate the provider for
medical services, supplies or equipment, that have been
reimbursed under this section. By accepting payment as referenced
herein, said medical provider shall be prohibited from assessing
any additional charges against the victim or Applicant.
h.

3.

In making determinations regarding applications for medical
expenses, the Administrator may obtain an advisory opinion of a
review panel consisting of members of the medical community.

Mental Health Counseling
a.

A victim shall be eligible for compensation for reasonable and
necessary mental health counseling and psychiatric care expenses
that have been actually and reasonably incurred as a direct result
of the crime. A parent, spouse, sibling or child of a victim who dies
as a direct result of a violent crime shall be eligible for
compensation for reasonable and necessary mental health
counseling and psychiatric care expenses that have been actually
and reasonably incurred as a direct result of the death of the victim.
A secondary victim shall be eligible for compensation for
reasonable and necessary mental health counseling and
psychiatric care expenses that have been actually and reasonably
incurred as a direct result of witnessing the homicide of a victim or
the domestic violence incident against a victim. Compensation
shall not be awarded for treatment of unrelated conditions, or for
preexisting conditions to the extent they were exacerbated by the
crime. Compensation shall not be awarded on the basis of an
estimate of services to be rendered. However, where the mental
health provider requires pre-authorization for payments for mental
health counseling or psychiatric care, the Administrator may
authorize payment for such mental health counseling or psychiatric
care upon a showing by the mental health provider that:
(1)

the mental health counseling or psychiatric care to be
rendered is related to the crime for which an application for
compensation was filed with the office;

(2)

the mental health counseling or psychiatric care is
reasonable and necessary to correct the injury to the victim;
and

(3)

the fees and costs associated with the proposed mental
health counseling or psychiatric care are reasonable and in
conjunction with R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-19(h).

(AA) The following maximum rates and limitations for the
payment of mental health treatment sessions:

(4)

(i)

$130 per hour is reimbursed for individual
services provided by a licensed psychiatrist;

(ii)

$110 per hour is reimbursed for individual
services provided by a licensed clinical
psychologist;

(iii)

$90 per hour is reimbursed for individual
services provided by a licensed clinical social
worker, mental health nurse, marriage and
family therapist (MFT), or clinical nurse
specialist with a specialty in psychiatric mental
health nursing;

(iv)

For group therapy, forty percent (40%) of the
maximum individual session rate is
reimbursed;

(v)

Family therapy is reimbursed as individual
session rates listed above;

(vi)

An award issued to or on behalf of a secondary
victim shall not exceed one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00) and shall not be
paid for costs incurred after a secondary victim
reaches the age of eighteen (18).

An award issued to a minor witness of domestic
violence or homicide shall not exceed one thousand
five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) per claim.

b.

Upon request of the Administrator, the treating mental health
provider must submit a mental health treatment plan on a form
prescribed by the office. If mental health treatment extends beyond
six months or thirty (30) sessions (whichever is greater), the
Administrator may require, as a condition of further payment, the
submission of a current, updated mental health treatment plan by
the mental health provider.

c.

All mental health providers must be registered or certified with, or
licensed by, or under the direct supervision of a person who is
registered or certified with, or licensed by either the Rhode Island
Board of Medical Licensure and Discipline, the Rhode Island Board
of Registration of Social Workers, the Rhode Island Board of
Psychology, or the Rhode Island Department of Health as a Mental

Health Counselor or a Therapist in Marriage or Family Practice, or
by an equivalent state licensing authority.
d.

In making determinations regarding applications for mental health
counseling or psychiatric care, the Administrator may obtain an
advisory opinion of a peer review panel consisting of volunteer
members of the mental health provider community.

e.

The office shall compensate mental health counseling or psychiatric
care expenses in accordance with the following maximum rates and
limitations as follows:

f.

(1)

$130 per hour is reimbursed for individual services provided
by a licensed psychiatrist;

(2)

$110 per hour is reimbursed for individual services provided
by a licensed clinical psychologist;

(3)

$90 per hour is reimbursed for individual services provided
by a licensed clinical social worker, mental health nurse,
marriage and family therapist (MFT), or clinical nurse
specialist with a specialty in psychiatric mental health
nursing;

(4)

For group therapy, forty percent (40%) of the maximum
individual session rate is reimbursed;

(5)

Family therapy is reimbursed as individual session rates
listed above.

(6)

An award issued to or on behalf of a secondary victim shall
not exceed one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00)
and shall not be paid for costs incurred after a secondary
victim reaches the age of eighteen (18).

Compensation for mental health counseling may be denied for
expenses incurred in the following instances:
(1)

Missed or canceled appointments;

(2)

non-therapeutic testimonial court appearances by a mental
health provider;

(3)

non-therapeutic investigatory consultations;

(4)

photocopying and report writing; or

(5)
g.

4.

tele-therapy or dial-for-therapy services unconnected to any
face-to-face consultation of diagnosis.

The Administrator may authorize payment directly to a mental
health provider, but only if the provider has fully cooperated with the
office in the investigation of the claim. Any mental health provider
that receives payment from the Office of the General Treasurer
pursuant to an award under R.I. Gen. Laws §§ 12-25-1 et. seq.
shall, as a condition of the receipt of such payment, accept such
payment as discharging in full any and all obligations of the victim
or Applicant to pay, reimburse or compensate the provider for
services that have been reimbursed under this section. By
accepting payment as referenced herein, said mental health
provider shall be prohibited from assessing any additional charges
against the victim or Applicant.

Loss of Earnings: If, at the time of the crime, the victim was employed, he
may be eligible for compensation for loss of earnings.
a.

In order to be eligible for loss of earnings, the victim must
demonstrate that, as a direct result of injuries caused by the crime,
he/she is medically disabled from working and, further, the exact
number of weeks for which he/she will be disabled from working.
Upon request by the office, the victim must submit a disability letter
from a treating physician or mental health provider demonstrating
that the victim is disabled from working as a direct result of the
crime and specifying an exact date when the victim is able to
resume working. The disability letter must be on the letterhead of
the treating physician or mental health provider, or on a disability
form prescribed by the Crime Victim Compensation Program, and
signed by the treating physician or mental health provider.

b.

An award for loss of earnings shall be based on the victim’s actual
earnings at the time of the crime. If the victim was performing
salaried employment at the time of the crime, the award shall be
based on the victim’s salary at the time of the crime. If the victim
was performing seasonal, nonsalaried or intermittent work at the
time of the crime, or if the victim had received a bona fide offer of
employment at the time of the crime, the office may look to the
victim’s earnings history and the value of the victim’s contractual
work obligations in order to determine the victim’s loss of earnings.
Any award for loss of earnings based on seasonal, nonsalaried, or
intermittent work, or on a bona fide offer of employment shall be
based on an average net anticipated salary for the period of
employment. If the victim was self-employed, the office may look to
the victim’s earnings history based on the victim’s financial
statements or tax returns for the three (3) years prior to the time of

the crime. Any award for loss of earnings for self-employed victims
shall be based on an average net salary for the aforementioned
period of self-employment. All net earnings for injuries occurring on
or after January 1, 2022 are calculated based on 62% of the
victim’s gross earnings.

5.

c.

If, at the time of the crime, the victim was not employed, the
Administrator shall not make an award for loss of earnings.

d.

Upon request by the office, the Applicant must provide:
(1)

verification from his/her employer (or, if self-employed, from
his/her own income tax records) that he/she was employed
at the time of the crime; and of the dates he/she was absent
from work, his/her net weekly earnings at the time of the
crime, and any sick and/or vacation benefits used in his/her
absence;

(2)

proof of employment and earnings history for one year
preceding the crime.

e.

An award for loss of earnings shall be based on the loss of reported
income. Unreported income may not form the basis of an award for
loss of earnings.

f.

An award for loss of earnings shall be based on net (after tax)
earnings. Any compensation awarded shall be reduced by any
money received or receivable from any other public or private
source including, but not limited to, workers’ compensation benefits,
social security benefits, disability benefits, and sick and vacation
benefits.

g.

Failure to provide proof of earnings, or failure to provide proof of
medical disability, may result in denial of a claim for loss of
earnings.

Eligibility for Compensation for Loss of Support: Dependents of homicide
victims shall be eligible for loss of the victim’s financial support in
accordance with the following requirements:
a.

In order to be eligible for loss of financial support, an eligible
Applicant must demonstrate that, at the time of the crime, he/she
was wholly or partially dependent upon the financial support of the
victim at the time of his or her death.
(1)

An eligible Applicant shall be presumed wholly financially
dependent on the victim if he/she demonstrates that:

(AA) he/she is a minor child of the victim who was living
with the victim at the time of the crime and receiving
financial support from the victim; for purposes of a
minor child, the value of the care provided by a stayat-home parent with whom the child resided, shall
constitute financial support; or
(BB) at the time of the crime, the eligible Applicant was
living with the victim and the victim’s income
constituted his/her primary source of financial support.
(2)

An eligible Applicant may establish that he/she was partially
dependent on the victim if he/she demonstrates that:
(AA) he/she is a minor child of the victim who, at the time
of the crime, was not living with the victim but was
receiving financial support directly from the victim; or
(BB) at the time of the crime, the eligible Applicant was
living with the victim and dependent on financial
support received directly from the victim as shown by
the joint loan agreements, joint bank accounts or
other documents evidencing financial dependence.

6.

Calculation of Award for Loss of Support: Once the dependency of the
eligible Applicant has been established, an award for loss of support shall
be calculated based on the number of weeks for which the Applicant
would have remained financially dependent on the victim.
a.

If the Applicant was wholly dependent on the victim for financial
support an award for loss of support shall be based on the rate of
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per week.

b.

If the Applicant was partially dependent on the victim for financial
support, an award for loss of support shall be based on the rate of
one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00) per week.

c.

The Applicant must demonstrate the number of weeks for which
he/she would have remained financially dependent on the victim. In
making this determination, the following limitations shall apply:
(1)

if the Applicant is a minor, the period of dependency shall
continue until the Applicant reaches the age of 18 years old,
or in the case of a full-time student, the period of
dependency shall continue until the Applicant reaches the
age of twenty-three (23) years old.

(2)

7.

the period of dependency shall not exceed the life
expectancy of either the victim or the Applicant, whichever is
sooner.

d.

If two or more Applicants seek compensation for loss of financial
support from the same victim, the award shall be apportioned
based on each Applicant’s loss of financial support from the victim,
notwithstanding, in the case of two or more minor children seeking
compensation for loss of support from the victim-parent, then the
award shall be divided equally between the minor children.

e.

As a condition of making an award to a minor dependent of a crime
victim, the Administrator may require that such funds be placed in a
trust account for the benefit of the minor dependent. The
Administrator may also require that the Applicant or individual
entrusted with the care and custody of the minor dependent
execute and deliver to the office a trust agreement certifying that
said individual will hold the funds separate and apart from his/her
own monies, that said individual will, throughout the period of the
minor dependent’s minority, hold and safeguard said funds for the
benefit of the minor dependent, expend said funds for the health
and welfare of the minor dependent, and that upon the minor
dependent’s attainment of majority, transfer title to all remaining
funds and investments made on his/her behalf to said minor
dependent. If, at the time of the award, a permanent guardian has
not been appointed for the minor dependent, the office may defer
issuance of all or part of the award until such time as a permanent
guardian or trustee has been appointed, or until the dependent
reaches the age of 18, whichever is sooner.

Funeral and Burial Expenses: An award for funeral and burial expenses
shall be based on reasonable and necessary expenses actually incurred
by the Applicant as a result of the death of the victim, less burial and life
insurance benefits and less contributions and donations received from
friends, other relatives or other sources.
a.

Taking into consideration the amount of revenue in the violent
crimes indemnity account and the number and nature of claims
pending against it, the maximum award for funeral and burial
expenses shall be limited to ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).

b.

Funeral and burial expenses shall be limited to those expenses
incurred at the funeral home, including reasonable and necessary
cemetery charges, and including reasonable and necessary
expenses for a headstone for the victim and such other reasonable
and necessary charges as determined by the Administrator.

8.

c.

If the Applicant is eligible for payment of funeral and burial
expenses through the Department of Human Services pursuant to
R.I. Gen. Laws § 40-6-3.10, this benefit must be deducted from the
funeral and burial expenses actually incurred by the Applicant.

d.

The office may award emergency compensation under the 1999
amendments to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act of 1996 for
the burial expenses of a victim who dies as a direct result of a
violent crime. An award for emergency compensation shall be
awarded at the sole discretion of the Administrator. An award for
emergency compensation shall not exceed the sum of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00). Any award for emergency compensation shall
be deducted from the final award. In the event the victim is later
found to be ineligible for compensation under the provisions of R.I.
Gen. Laws §§ 12-25-1 et. seq., then the victim’s estate or the
Applicant, or both, shall repay the amount of the emergency award
to the fund.

e.

The office shall work with law enforcement authorities to obtain
relevant facts and circumstances surrounding the events that led to
the death of the victim before making an emergency burial award,
including, but not limited to, reviewing police reports and records
and the criminal record, if any, of the victim. If the Administrator
determines that the victim is not eligible, then no emergency burial
award will be made.

f.

The office will act as expeditiously and thoroughly as possible to
ensure that prompt payment of an emergency burial award is
made.

Pain and Suffering: This § 2.8(A)(8) of this Part shall not apply to any
claims for compensation filed pursuant to the 1999 amendments to the
Criminal Injuries Compensation Act of 1996. Accordingly, any claims
involving crimes resulting in personal injury or death which occurred on or
after September 1, 1999 would not be eligible for an award for pain and
suffering. Further, any claims arising under or made pursuant to the 1972
or 1996 Acts which are voluntarily transferred by the Applicant into the
program established pursuant to the 1999 amendments to the Criminal
Injuries Compensation Act of 1996 would not be eligible for an award for
pain and suffering. The Applicant and/or the victim, by transferring said
claim, would waive all rights to a claim of pain and suffering. As to claims
filed pursuant to the 1972 Act or the 1996 Act, only a victim, the legal
guardian of a victim, or the child advocate filing an application for
compensation on behalf of a minor victim are eligible for an award for pain
and suffering. Relatives, dependents, and legal representatives of the
victim’s estate are not eligible for an award for pain and suffering.

a.

In determining the amount of the pain and suffering award, the
Administrator shall take into consideration the rates and amounts
payable for injuries and death under other statues of this state and
of the United States, and the amount of revenue in the violent
crimes indemnity account and the number and nature of claims
pending against it. The amount of the award for pain and suffering
shall be based on the amount deemed necessary and appropriate,
taking into account the particular circumstances involved in the
crime and the financial resources available in the violent crimes
indemnity fund.

b.

An award for pain and suffering shall be based on a rate of two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per week for each week of total
disability and a rate of one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00)
per week for each week of partial disability. For the purpose of
determining an award for pain and suffering, the number of weeks
the victim is totally or partially disabled shall mean that period of
time during which the victim was either:

c.

9.

(1)

hospitalized as an inpatient at an acute care hospital, nonacute rehabilitation hospital, nursing home facility, or
psychiatric hospital; or

(2)

treated on an ongoing basis by a physician or mental health
provider for injuries incurred as a direct result of the crime; or

(3)

unable to resume employment due to the injuries incurred as
a direct result of the crime.

The victim must submit a disability letter from a treating physician
or mental health provider specifically describing the victim’s
disability, the exact number of weeks the victim received treatment
from the physician or mental health provider, and the exact number
of weeks the victim was totally disabled and/or partially disabled.

Attorney Fees: For any cases currently pending under the 1972 Act, upon
a judgment in favor of the plaintiff, the amount of compensation awarded
to a plaintiff’s attorney shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the total
amount awarded to the plaintiff, or two thousand dollars ($2,000.00),
whichever is less, provided, however, that in unusual circumstances, the
court may award a larger attorney’s fee if it finds that a departure from the
limits set forth herein is warranted, stating specific reasons upon which the
finding and award is based. For cases filed pursuant to the 1996 Act or the
1999 amendments to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act of 1996,
attorney fees shall only be awarded upon a successful request for
reconsideration of the Administrator’s decision to the Treasurer or the
Treasurer’s designee or upon a successful appeal of the Treasurer or the

Treasurer’s designee’s decision to the Superior Court. Any attorney who
charges, demands, receives or collects for services rendered in
connection with any proceeding under the 1996 Act or the 1999
amendments to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act of 1996, any
amount in excess of that allowed under this section, if any compensation
is paid, shall be subject to disciplinary action and other appropriate action
to be taken by the Supreme Court of the state of Rhode Island.
a.

10.

In order to be eligible for an attorney fee award, the following
conditions must apply:
(1)

the attorney must fully cooperate with the office in the
investigation of the application, including fully and promptly
responding to all requests for information and verification;
and

(2)

the attorney must submit an affidavit which sets forth the
hours worked, the services rendered, and the amount of fee
proposed to be charged for representing the Applicant during
the proceedings.

b.

In determining the amount of an attorney fee award, the Treasurer
or the Treasurer’s designee shall make a determination, based on
the attorney affidavit and a review of the file, of a reasonable
amount of time in preparation, in settlement negotiations, and in
hearing attendance, the total amount awarded to the Applicant for
injuries incurred, and the amount of revenue in the violent fines
indemnity account, together with the number and nature of the
claims pending against it.

c.

In no event shall an attorney fee award exceed fifteen percent
(15%) of the total award for compensation, or one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00), whichever is less, provided, however,
that in unusual circumstances, the Treasurer or court may award a
larger attorney’s fee if it finds that a departure from the limits set
forth in this subsection is warranted, stating specific reasons upon
which the finding and award is based.

d.

Attorney fees shall not be awarded in those cases brought by The
Office of the Child Advocate.

Loss of earnings for parent/guardian of minor or incompetent crime victim:
In order for the parent/guardian of a minor or incompetent crime victim to
be eligible for loss of earnings, the parent/guardian must demonstrate that
he/she was absent from work as a direct result of circumstances attributed
to the crime due to required medical treatment for the victim, required
mental health treatment for the victim, required court appearances for the

victim or required meetings for the victim with law enforcement in the
preparation and prosecution of the criminal case. Proof will be required of
the following:
a.

documentation of the reason(s) the parent/guardian was absent
from work due to caregiver responsibilities which are a direct result
of the crime, as set forth above; documentation of each absence
shall be required as to the date, time, place and purpose which
resulted in the parent/guardian’s absence from work.

b.

documentation by the employer of the parent/guardian as to the
absence from work.

c.

calculation of loss of earnings shall be as follows:
(1)

An award for loss of earnings shall be based on the
parent/guardian’s actual earnings.

(2)

If the parent/guardian was performing salaried employment
the award shall be based on the parent/guardian’s salary at
the time of the absence from work.

(3)

If the parent/guardian was performing seasonal, nonsalaried
or intermittent work at the time of the crime, the office may
look to the parent/guardian’s earnings history and the value
of the parent/guardian’s contractual work obligations in order
to determine the parent/guardian’s loss of earnings. Any
award for loss of earnings based on seasonal, nonsalaried,
or intermittent work shall be based on any average net
anticipated earnings for the period of employment. If the
parent/guardian was self-employed, the office may look to
the parent/guardian’s earnings history based on the
parent/guardian’s financial statements or tax returns for the
three (3) years prior to the absence from work. Any award
for loss of earnings for self-employed parent/guardian shall
be based on an average net salary for the aforementioned
period of self-employment.

(4)

Upon request by the office, the parent/guardian must provide
verification from his/her employer (or if self-employed, from
his/her own income tax records) that he/she was gainfully
employed at the time of the required absence; and of the
dates he/she was required to be absent from work, his/her
net weekly earnings at the time of the required absence from
work, and any sick, vacation or personal time benefits
available during his/her absence. An award for loss of
earnings shall be based on the loss of reported income.

Unreported income may not form the basis of an award for
loss of earnings. An award for loss of earnings shall be
based on net (after tax) earnings. Any compensation
awarded shall be reduced by any money received or
receivable from any other public or private source including,
but not limited to, workers’ compensation benefits, social
security benefits, disability benefits, and sick, vacation or
personal time benefits.
11.

12.

Crime scene clean-up reimbursement: Crime scene clean-up refers to the
professional bio-hazard clean-up, disinfecting, and removal or attempted
removal of items contaminated by blood or other bodily fluids, dirt stains or
other debris caused by the crime for which victim or Applicant is seeking
compensation. This may include the removal or attempted removal of
stains, odors and broken glass to the premises and/or property where the
crime occurred.
a.

An award for crime scene clean-up shall not exceed the sum of two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00). Any award for crime-scene clean-up
shall be deducted from the final award. The costs must be an actual
loss incurred.

b.

An award for crime scene clean-up shall be limited to expenses for
cleaning and disinfecting, and shall exclude any repair costs or
costs for replacement of property which is destroyed or damaged.
For example, the cost of painting, replacing doors, windows, or
carpet shall not be reimbursed.

c.

The Administrator may deny an award for crime scene clean-up for
lack of verification showing the need for the clean-up and detailing
the expenses. Crime scene clean-up expenses may be verified by
the applicable law enforcement report or by other detailed
descriptions of the clean-up expenses.

d.

An award for crime scene clean-up shall be limited to expenses
which are the responsibility of the victim or Applicant.

Emergency relocation expenses: The Administrator may issue an award
for expenses resulting from the temporary or permanent relocation of a
victim, or the temporary or permanent relocation of a relative, domestic
partner or dependent of a homicide victim provided that such relative,
domestic partner or dependent was living in the same household where
the homicide occurred. Compensation awarded for emergency relocation
expenses shall not exceed the sum of eight thousand dollars ($8,000.00).
Any award for emergency relocation expenses shall be deducted from the
final award.

a.

In order to qualify for compensation of relocation expenses, the
following conditions must be met:
(1)

The crime must have occurred in the victim’s primary place
of residence or the Applicant must demonstrate that, as a
result of the crime, he or she reasonably fears for his or her
continued safety in his or her primary place of residence.

(2)

An Applicant must have an immediate need to relocate, a
reasonable fear to continue to live within the arrangements
as established prior to the crime, or, alternatively,
immediately following the crime, the Applicant must be
unable to afford the documented housing costs.

b.

If the crime did not occur in the victim's primary residence, the
Administrator may require that the Applicant provide documentation
demonstrating that, as a result of the crime, he or she possesses a
reasonable fear of living in his or her primary residence. The
victim’s need for relocation may be certified by a domestic violence
agency, rape crisis center, treating mental health provider or any
other certified victim's advocate agency.

c.

All relocation expenses must be incurred by the victim, relative,
domestic partner or dependent of a homicide victim as a direct
result of the crime. The expenses must be reasonable and
necessary.

d.

Types of expenses:
(1)

Temporary housing expenses: Temporary housing expenses
are limited to one hundred fifty dollars (150.00) per night, for
not more than ten (10) nights.

(2)

Start-up expenses: Start-up expenses may include deposits
for gas, oil and/or electric utility connection. Start-up costs
are not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00).

(3)

Moving expenses: Moving expenses may include rental
trucks, moving companies, and storage fees not to exceed
three months. Total moving expenses are not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00).

(4)

Housing-related expenses: Housing related expenses may
include, but are not limited to, mortgage, rent, or other
housing costs. The Administrator will have discretion to
determine what is considered “reasonable rent” based on the
area of relocation. An award for housing-related expenses
related to rent will be limited to those amounts due for the

security deposit, the first month’s rent, and the second
month’s rent. These amounts shall be limited by the current
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Fair
Market Rent.

13.

(5)

One-way transportation expenses: One-way transportation
expenses to relocate to another permanent location, state, or
jurisdiction. Transportation costs may include: plane; train;
auto rental; or bus fare. One-way transportation costs are
not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) per person.
CVCP shall not be liable for any ancillary costs incurred
including but not limited to accidents or stolen vehicles.

(6)

In no event shall the sum of the compensation awarded to
an Applicant for relocation expenses exceed the aggregate
amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). Prior to any
reimbursement, substantiating documents must be
presented to CVCP.

Home Modifications: A victim shall be eligible for compensation for home
modifications where deemed medically necessary as a result of the crime
or necessary to ensure victim safety.
a.

b.

To be eligible for compensation for modifications deemed medically
necessary, the following conditions must be met:
(1)

The home modification must be deemed medically
necessary as the result of the crime by the appropriate
medical professional(s).

(2).

Victim must provide a minimum of three (3) quotes detailing
the work to be completed, pricing for labor and materials,
and specifications (including measurements and type of
materials to be used) of all parts of the project.

(3).

Administrator has issued a pre-authorization for the lowest
cost option that complies with relevant standards and
medical necessity.

(4).

The appropriate permits have been issued and inspections
have been completed and approved.

To be eligible for compensation for modifications deemed
necessary to ensure victim safety, the following conditions must be
met:
(1)

The Administrator must determine modification to a dwelling
unit is reasonable and necessary to ensure victim safety.

14.

(2)

Victim must provide a quote detailing the work to be
completed, pricing for labor and materials, and specifications
(including measurements and type of materials to be used)
of all parts of the project.

(3)

Where a modification would deprive a landlord of access to a
dwelling unit, the victim must provide the landlord’s written
consent.

Travel Expenses and Overnight Accommodation:
a.

Victim’s personal injury. In the event the victim suffers personal
injury, the victim’s reasonable and necessary travel expenses and
overnight accommodation to receive necessary medical treatment,
and/or counseling services, or to participate in criminal justice
proceedings shall be considered direct expenses and eligible for
compensation.
(1)

An award for reasonable and necessary travel expenses and
overnight accommodation shall not exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000) per claim.
(AA) Reasonable and necessary travel expenses:
(i)

may include mileage, parking, car rental and/or
round-trip fare for travel by plane, train, bus,
and/or taxi (or rideshare equivalent); and

(ii)

may be awarded up to five hundred dollars
($500).

(BB) Reasonable and necessary overnight
accommodation:
(i)

may include overnight accommodation for up
to three (3) consecutive nights; and

(ii)

may be awarded up to five hundred dollars
($500), inclusive of taxes, at a rate of not more
than one hundred fifty dollars ($150) per night;
and

(iii)

excludes incidental expenditures, which
include but are not limited to food, beverage
and damages, and shall not be considered
compensable.

(2)

b.

The Administrator shall have the discretion to waive the cap
on reasonable and necessary travel expenses and overnight
accommodation upon a showing of good cause by the
victim.

Victim’s Death. In the event of the victim’s death, reasonable and
necessary travel expenses and overnight accommodation of one or
more dependents to participate in a funeral, memorial, and/or burial
service, to receive necessary counseling services or to participate
in criminal justice proceedings shall be considered direct expenses
and eligible for compensation.
(1)

An award for dependent(s)’s reasonable and necessary
travel expenses and overnight accommodation shall not
exceed three thousand dollars ($3,000) relating to claims per
victim’s death.
(AA) Reasonable and necessary travel expenses:
(i)

may include mileage, parking, car rental and/or
round-trip fare for travel by plane, train, bus,
and/or taxi (or rideshare equivalent); and

(ii)

may be awarded up to two thousand dollars
($2,000).

(BB) Reasonable and necessary accommodation:

(2)

c.

(i)

may include overnight accommodation for up
to three (3) consecutive nights; and

(ii)

may be awarded up to one thousand dollars
($1,000), inclusive of taxes, at a rate of not
more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250) per
night; and

(iii)

exclude incidental expenditures, which include
but not limited to food, beverage and damages,
and shall not be considered compensable.

The Administrator shall have the discretion to waive the cap
on reasonable and necessary travel expenses and overnight
accommodation upon a showing of good cause by the
dependent(s).

A victim or their dependent(s) seeking compensation or
reimbursement for necessary and reasonable travel expenses
and/or overnight accommodation must select a cost-effective

option. The Administrator may require the victim or dependent
eligible for an award to justify the cost-effectiveness of any
reasonable and necessary travel expenses and overnight
accommodation.
15.

Where an individual has been the victim of Stalking pursuant to R.I. Gen.
Laws § 11-59-2, the administrator may award only emergency
compensation for relocation or for reasonable modifications to a victim's
residence under R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-21.1. Victims of Stalking shall not
be entitled to compensation for any other expense unless they were the
victim of another compensable offense under R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-20.

2.9

Limitations on Compensation

A.

Violent Felonious Criminal Conduct: If the victim has pled nolo contendere or
been convicted of violent felonious criminal conduct, committed within the past
five (5) years or subsequent to his or her injury, the Administrator may reduce or
deny an award to the Applicant or Applicants.

B.

If the victim has pled nolo contendere or been convicted of a crime listed in §
2.9(A) of this Part above, the Administrator may reduce or deny an award to the
Applicant or Applicants. In determining whether to reduce or deny an award, the
Administrator may consider the following factors:
1.

The remoteness in time between the prior conviction and the application
for benefits;

2.

The nature and seriousness of the crime which led to the conviction;

3.

The extent and gravity of the injury to the claimant’s victim(s) in the crime
which led to the conviction;

4.

The victim’s disdain for the law as represented by the extent of the victim’s
prior criminal record; and

5.

The victim’s remorse and rehabilitation since the conviction, such as, the
efforts made by the victim to provide restitution for the crime committed
which led to the conviction or efforts made by the victim to reimburse the
office for payments made to any person or entity in connection with the
convictions.

C.

Any individual who is incarcerated at any criminal institutional facility at the time
of his or her injury shall not be eligible to receive an award of compensation.

D.

Contribution: To the extent the victim’s acts or conduct, including past behavior,
directly or indirectly provoked or contributed to the victim’s injuries, the
Administrator shall reduce or deny the award to the Applicant or Applicants.

1.

Definition of contributory conduct: Contributory conduct is intentional
conduct, willingly and knowingly engaged in by the victim that is both a
direct cause, and a proximate cause, of the victim’s injuries.

2.

Circumstances that, in general, do not warrant the denial or reduction of
an award based on contributory conduct include:

3.

4.

a.

acts of self-defense or defense of others;

b.

acts attributable to reasonable efforts by the victim to aid a crime
victim, to prevent a crime from occurring in his/her presence, or to
apprehend a person who has committed a crime in his/her
presence.

Circumstances that may warrant a reduction or denial of an award based
on contributory conduct include:
a.

crimes in which the victim deliberately provoked the offender by
means of fighting words, racial or other bias-motivated taunting, or
by threats coupled with overt actions indicating the victim’s intent to
carry out the threat;

b.

crimes in which the victim initiated or significantly escalated a
physical altercation with the offender;

c.

crimes in which the victim could have anticipated the conflict and
retreated, but decided not to retreat;

d.

crimes constituting acts of retaliation or retribution for a crime or
crimes previously committed by the victim;

e.

crimes in which the victim acted as an accomplice to the offender;

f.

crimes committed during the course of an illegal act in which the
victim was a knowing and willing participant;

g.

crimes in which the victim’s felony criminal record, coupled with the
circumstances of the crime, lead to the reasonable inference that
the crime for which the Applicant seeks compensation was directly
caused or provoked by the victim’s criminal history.

If the Administrator finds that a victim knowingly and willingly engaged in
intentional conduct that was a direct cause of his/her injuries, the
Administrator shall determine the proximate cause of the victim’s injuries
and may deny, reduce or allow the award as follows:
a.

if it was reasonably foreseeable that the victim’s contributory
actions would result in injuries of the type and nature he/she

sustained, the application shall be denied (e.g. an implicit or explicit
agreement to fight, in which a physical altercation ensued resulting
in mutual injuries).

E.

b.

if it was reasonably foreseeable that the victim’s contributory
conduct would result in injuries to the victim, but it was not
reasonably foreseeable that his/her actions would result in injuries
of the type and nature sustained by the victim, the award may be
reduced by fifty percent (50%) percent (e.g. victim was stabbed or
shot in response to punching the offender).

c.

if the victim’s injuries were not reasonably foreseeable, the award
shall not be reduced or denied even though the victim’s actions
were an actual and direct cause of his injuries (e.g. victim was
stabbed or shot in response to verbal provocation of the offender).

Unjust Enrichment:
1.

An Applicant shall not be eligible for compensation if such compensation
would directly or indirectly unjustly benefit the offender.

2.

In no event shall an Applicant be denied compensation solely because of
the Applicant’s or the victim’s familial relationship with the offender or
because of the sharing of a residency by the victim or Applicant and the
offender.

2.10 Appeals
A.

Request for Reconsideration:
1.

Within fifteen (15) days of the date of receipt of the notice of an award or
denial, the Applicant may submit a request for reconsideration of the
Administrator’s decision. The request for reconsideration must be in
writing, accompanied by any further documentation supporting the
application and the request for reconsideration.

2.

In addition, the Administrator, in his or her own discretion, may reconsider
a decision awarding or denying compensation where there has been no
request for reconsideration. The Administrator shall then issue an
amended notice of award or denial.

3.

Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the request for reconsideration and
the supporting documentation, the Treasurer or the Treasurer’s designee
shall reconsider any award or denial and, based on the additional
supporting documentation submitted by the Applicant, shall either affirm
the award or denial, or issue an amended award or denial or remand the
matter to the Administrator for further review. The Applicant shall be
notified of the decision upon reconsideration by certified mail, return

receipt requested, and by first class mail. The decision of reconsideration
shall be accompanied by information informing the Applicant of the right to
judicial review of the decision upon reconsideration.

B.

4.

Any request for reconsideration that involves a medical expense, mental
health counseling or psychiatric care expense, or funeral and burial
expense not previously submitted with the original application shall be
treated as a reopening of the application for compensation. The
Administrator shall investigate the request for reopening and issue a
supplemental award, if appropriate.

5.

If no request for reconsideration is filed within the time period specified in
R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-18(f), the decision of the Administrator shall be
final.

Appeals:
1.

Within thirty (30) days of the Treasurer’s or Treasurer’s designee’s
decision upon reconsideration, the Applicant may petition the Superior
Court for judicial review pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
R.I. Gen. Laws § 42-35-15 and pursuant to R.I. Gen. Laws § 12-25-18(h).

2.11 Obligations of the Applicant
A.

B.

Applicant’s Obligations: An Applicant shall have the following obligations with
respect to an application for compensation:
1.

The application must be made on an application form provided by the
office;

2.

The application must be signed by the Applicant under the pains and
penalties of perjury;

3.

The application must be accompanied by copies of bills and other
supporting documentation necessary to verify the application; and

4.

The application must contain a release of information necessary to
investigate the application.

Continuing Obligations: An Applicant shall have a continuing obligation to:
1.

provide the office with current information relating to the application;

2.

cooperate with the office in the investigation of the application including
responding promptly to all requests for further information and
verifications, and responding promptly to all requests to exhaust other
sources of reimbursement;

C.

3.

notify the office of any change in address;

4.

provide information to the office about any civil action anticipated or filed in
connection with the crime;

5.

exhaust all other sources of payment or reimbursement for compensable
expenses, and promptly notify the office of any order for payment or
eligibility for payment received or to be received by the victim or by any of
his or her dependents and relatives from any other source, including, but
not limited to:
a.

life insurance, health insurance, disability insurance or any other
private or public insurance program for personal injury or death,
including lost wages;

b.

workers’ compensation, social security benefits, veterans benefits,
retirement benefits or other private or public benefit program from
the United States, the state of Rhode Island or any state or any of
its subdivisions;

c.

Medicaid, Medicare, community free service, charity care, free care
or uncompensated care, or any other form of public assistance to
the aged and disabled or any successor;

d.

restitution in the criminal action received from the offender or from
any person on behalf of the offender;

e.

proceeds from a civil suit; or

f.

institutional gifts, charitable gifts, contributions, or donations.

6.

In the event that an award has been issued and payment has been made
by the office, the Applicant and/or victim shall promptly reimburse the
violent crimes indemnity fund, to the extent of compensation actually paid,
for payments received from any other source that exceed the total
compensable injuries suffered by the victim as determined by the
Administrator.

7.

In the event that an award has been issued but payment has not been
made by the office, the office shall be entitled to withhold payment to the
Applicant and/or victim when said Applicant and/or victim has received
payments from or settled any matter with any other source as mentioned
herein that exceeds the total compensable injuries suffered by the victim
as determined by the Administrator.

Burden of Proof: The Applicant has the burden of demonstrating his/her eligibility
for compensation, and his/her compensable expenses, by a preponderance of
the evidence. The Applicant must provide written documentation to establish the

facts supporting his/her application for compensation. Such documentation shall
include, where appropriate, all expenses, lost wage verifications, W-2 forms, tax
returns, death and birth certificates, and the incident report from the appropriate
law enforcement authorities.
D.

Failure to Comply: An Applicant’s failure to comply with any obligation set forth in
§ 2.11 of this Part may result in denial of the application for compensation.

E.

Fraudulent Application: Any person who submits a false or fraudulent application;
intentionally makes or causes to be made any false statement or representation
of a material fact in relation to any application pending before the office; or
intentionally conceals or fails to disclose information affecting the amount or the
initial or continued right to any such award shall be punished by a fine or not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for not more than
six (6) months, or both.

2.12 Recovery from Offender
A.

Whenever any person is convicted of an offense and compensation is awarded
for a personal injury or death resulting from the act constituting the offense, the
state of Rhode Island shall institute an action against that person for the recovery
of the whole or any specified part of the compensation in the Superior Court of
the state of Rhode Island in any county, or in the state or federal court of any
other state or district in which that person resides or is found.

B.

The Administrator shall pursue such recovery whenever possible in order to
provide additional funds for the violent crimes indemnity account. If such action is
impractical or impossible, the Administrator shall make a finding in writing stating
the reasons why such action is not instituted.

C.

When a court orders a defendant to make financial restitution to the victim of a
crime to whom compensation has been awarded pursuant to R.I. Gen. Laws §§
12-25-1 et seq., the state of Rhode Island may enforce the civil judgment entered
by the trial court against the defendant on behalf of the victim pursuant to R.I.
Gen. Laws § 12-28-5.1.

D.

An action instituted by the state of Rhode Island against any person for the
recovery of the whole or any specified part of the compensation awarded as
mentioned herein must be commenced within ten (10) years from the date
compensation is awarded by the office.

E.

Notwithstanding the provisions of § 2.9 of this Part, in the event that an offender
files an application for compensation with the office, the Administrator shall have
the authority to reduce any amount of compensation awarded to the offender by
any sum awarded to the victim of the offender.

2.13 Confidentiality of Records
A.

All medical records, mental health counseling records, psychiatric records,
employment information, personal financial information and investigative records
received, obtained or maintained by the office in connection with any application
for compensation shall be maintained as confidential investigative material, and
shall not be released or disclosed to any person or entity whatsoever, except as
authorized by the Applicant or as otherwise provided by law. The application and
the notice of award or denial shall be deemed public records, unless otherwise
provided by law.

120-RICR-00-00-2

TITLE 120 - TREASURY DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 00 - N/A
SUBCHAPTER 00 - N/A
PART 2 - RULES AND REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO THE CRIME VICTIM
COMPENSATION PROGRAM (120-RICR-00-00-2)
Type of Filing: Amendment

Agency Signature
E-SIGNED by James Diossa
September 23, 2026
on
2026-09-23
14:38:37
EDT
_________________________________________________________________
Agency Head Signature
Agency Signing Date

Department of State

10/13/2026
____________________________
Regulation Effective Date

E-SIGNED by Department of State
September 23, 2026
on 2026-09-23 14:43:57 EDT
_________________________________________________________________

Department of State Initials

Department of State Date

