Crime Victim Compensation Program | Rhode Island Office of the General Treasurer Skip to main content Crime Victim Compensation Program If you or a loved one has been a victim of violent crime in Rhode Island, the Crime Victim Compensation Program (CVCP) may be able to help as you navigate through these difficult times. While no amount of money can erase the impact of a violent crime, the CVCP provides up to $25,000 in reimbursement to Rhode Islanders for expenses related to violent crime, including: Medical, dental, and counseling expenses Relocation expenses Funeral and related expenses Crime scene cleaning Loss of earnings; and other expenses. To be eligible to participate in Rhode Island’s CVCP, victims of violent crime must file a police report within 15 days of the alleged crime and file a claim with CVCP no later than three years after the crime. More information about the Program can be found in the “Frequently Asked Questions” section below, and on the Rules and Regulations page. Please click here and select "Rulemaking Documents" tab for the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and the Proposed Rule. Applications can be submitted online here . (registration required) You can also print out an application below, either in English or Spanish, and fax it to 401-462-7694, or mail it to: Crime Victim Compensation Program Office of the Rhode Island General Treasurer 50 Service Ave Warwick, RI 02886 CVCP Application - English CVCP Application - English PDF file, less than 1 mb megabytes CVCP Application - Spanish PDF file, less than 1 mb megabytes CVCP Application - French PDF file, less than 1 mb megabytes CVCP Application - Haitian Creole PDF file, less than 1 mb megabytes CVCP Application - Cambodian PDF file, less than 1 mb megabytes CVCP Application - Portuguese PDF file, less than 1 mb megabytes For more information about Rhode Island’s Crime Victim Compensation Program, please call (401) 462-7655 or, email us . The Office of the General Treasurer does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age, national origin, or disability. Frequently Asked Questions Q: Who is eligible to apply for assistance from Rhode Island’s Crime Victim Compensation Program? A: Victims who suffer personal, physical or emotional injury in a violent crime in Rhode Island Dependents and immediate family members of homicide victims. Q: How does the process work? A: Victims must report the crime to law enforcement authorities within 15 days and apply for reimbursement of expenses within three years from the date of the crime. If the victim is under the age of 18 at the time of the crime the application period is extended. The only exceptions are: (1)minor victims can be processed with a DCYF report in lieu of a police report (2) Sexual assault victims can provide a forensic medical report done within 15 days of the assault in lieu of a police report. (3) Domestic violence victims can provide a 1-3 year no contact order in lieu of a police report. Victims must cooperate with reasonable requests of law enforcement authorities in their investigation and prosecution of the crime. Applicants cannot have contributed to the crime and must not have been convicted of a violent criminal felony in the five years prior to the crime. Q: What expenses are eligible for reimbursement? A: The CVCP can help with the following types of crime-related expenses, if not covered by insurance or other resources. Total reimbursement will not exceed $25,000. Medical, dental and counseling expenses Funeral and burial expenses Loss of earnings (victim only) Loss of support (dependents of homicide victim) Relocation expenses Current home modifications PROPERTY LOSSES ARE NOT COVERED Q: How is the Rhode Island Crime Victim Compensation Program funded? A: Rhode Island’s CVCP is primarily funded by court fees, federal grants, and gifts. The Program is administered by the Office of the General Treasurer. It is NOT funded with taxpayer money. Q: How do I apply for reimbursement through the Rhode Island Crime Victim Compensation Program? A: We are here to help! Complete the application and return it to the Crime Victim Compensation Program. Please respond promptly to all requests for additional information or documentation. You may also request that your claim be reopened for future medical and mental health counseling expenses. **IT IS NOT NECESSARY TO HIRE AN ATTORNEY TO FILE AN APPLICATION.** Unclaimed Property Find your Missing Money The Unclaimed Property Program returned millions to thousands of Rhode Islanders last year!