Eligibility & Enrollment | Arizona Secretary of State Skip to main content Minor Tracking Pixel Disclaimer We use technologies, such as tracking pixels, on our website to personalize content and ads, provide social media features, and analyze our traffic. This allows us to understand your interactions and preferences, improve our services, and deliver personalized content. Tracking pixels are tiny graphics with a unique identifier, similar in function to cookies. By using our site, you consent to the use of these technologies. Please see our Privacy Policy for more information. Close alert Unofficial 2024 General Election Results October 5, 2026 Last day to register to vote in the November 3, 2026 General Election at 11:59 p.m. October 7, 2026 Early voting begins and early ballots mailed November 3, 2026 General Election Day Eligibility & Enrollment Eligibility & Enrollment Am I Eligible? All eligibility criteria must be met to apply to the program. The eligibility criteria for applicants include: Is a victim of domestic violence, sexual offense (such as rape, sexual assault, molestation), or stalking; Is in fear of her or his safety; Has moved in the past 90 days to a place unknown by the perpetrator or is planning to move to a place unknown to the perpetrator in the near future within Arizona; Has documentation to support victimization; and Is an adult, or a parent or guardian acting on behalf of a minor or incapacitated person (victim of the crime). Co-applicants can be listed on the application if they reside with an eligible applicant. Co-applicants can be children or adults. All adult co-applicants must understand and agree to terms of enrollment before signing the application. One piece of documentation to support the primary applicant’s eligibility can include, for example: police reports, orders of protection, documentation from domestic violence and sexual assault services programs/advocates on agency letterhead, or letters written by a professional who has provided counseling, medical services, religious support, referrals, or other direct services to the applicant. How Do I Enroll? Applicants do not enroll or apply directly with the Arizona Address Confidentiality Program. Any person interested in applying to the program must meet in person with a registered Application Assistant. Application Assistants are located throughout the state in agencies and non-profit programs that provide counseling, referral, shelter, or assistance to victims of domestic violence, sexual offenses, and stalking. To find an Application Assistant near you: Locate an Application Assistant in Arizona Call the Address Confidentiality Program at 602-542-1653 What is an Application Assistant? An Application Assistant is someone who provides counseling, referral or other direct services to victims of stalking, sexual assault and/or domestic violence as part of their job or volunteer work and has completed the Address Confidentiality Program training and registration process. What does an Application Assistant Do? Meet with potential program participants/ applicants, Explain what the ACP does; Explain ACP participant responsibilities while enrolled in the program; Work with the victim/survivor to incorporate the ACP into their overall safety plan; Assist applicants with completing the ACP application; Recommend the applicant into the ACP and forward the application directly to the ACP. What Happens Once ACP Receives Completed Application? ACP staff review all completed applications. When an application is approved, the program participant(s) are certified for five years. All certified participants are issued an Arizona Address Confidentiality Authorization Card and a handbook on how to use the substitute address effectively with government agencies. Applicants are not authorized to use the ACP substitute address until they receive their welcome packet that includes the authorization card. ACP staff will not provide a substitute address over the phone. Contact ACP Office of the Secretary of State Address Confidentiality Program 1901 W Madison St Phoenix AZ 85009 602-542-1653 Email Tracking Pixel Disclaimer We use technologies, such as tracking pixels, on our website to personalize content and ads, provide social media features, and analyze our traffic. This allows us to understand your interactions and preferences, improve our services, and deliver personalized content. Tracking pixels are tiny graphics with a unique identifier, similar in function to cookies. By using our site, you consent to the use of these technologies. Please see our Privacy Policy for more information.