Victim Related Information | Maricopa County Attorney's Office, AZ Skip to Main Content Create a Website Account - Manage notification subscriptions, save form progress and more. Website Sign In Search Home Victims Victim Related Information Victim Related Information You’ve come to the central repository of all victim-related brochures, forms and other information organized into groups based on activity. General Information Victim Notification Victim Restitution Victim Compensation Volunteer/Intern General Information Victim Rights The criminal justice system can be daunting, confusing and even stressful for crime victims. Fortunately, help is available from the Victim Services Division of the Maricopa County Attorney's Office. Our mission is to assist crime victims throughout the criminal justice process by providing advocacy, support and services. Victims’ Rights Statutes Handbook (PDF) Victims Rights Flyer (PDF) Español: Folleto sobre los derechos de las víctimas (PDF) Post-Conviction Relief Anyone who has been convicted of a crime has the right to ask the original judge to review the case if they think the conviction or sentence violates the law or there is important new evidence that should be considered. This type of appeal is called a Post-Conviction Relief (PCR) Proceeding. Post-Conviction Relief Flyer (PDF) Lifetime Injunction in a Criminal Case Effective September 24, 2022, pursuant to A.R.S. § 13-719 (A), a victim of a qualifying offense may, at the time of sentencing, request a lifetime injunction against a defendant convicted of a qualifying offense. A qualifying offense includes any felony offense, completed or preparatory, which is a dangerous offense as defined in A.R.S. § 13-105 , a serious offense or a violent or aggravated felony as defined in A.R.S. § 13-706 , or in title 13, chapters 14 or 35.1. Victims of Juvenile Offenses The juvenile justice system can be daunting, confusing and even stressful for victims of offenses committed by juveniles. Fortunately, help is available from the Victim Services Division of the Maricopa County Attorney's Office. Our mission is to assist crime victims throughout the criminal justice process by providing advocacy, support and services. Victims of Juvenile Offenses Flyer (PDF) VIDEO: Victims’ Rights Post-Adjudication (Juvenile Justice System) Español: Folleto de Víctimas de Delitos Juveniles (PDF) VIDEO POST Adjudication Victim Notification (en español): PANR Después de la sentencia Kids in Court The Maricopa County Attorney's Office Kids In Court Program brings attorneys, judges and social workers together to help child victims and witnesses prepare to testify in court. Child Abuse If you know of an abused or neglected child, please call the police immediately and review the information in this brochure to help keep the children of our community safe. Domestic Violence If you find yourself in an abusive situation, it is important to remember that abuse comes in many forms - physical, emotional, sexual and financial. It is important that you make plans now to keep your and your children safe. Domestic Violence Informational Flyer (PDF) ↑ Top Victim Notification Victims of Current Cases If you are listed as a victim in a case that is currently pending and would like to receive notifications about the case, please call the Victim Services Division at 602-506-8522. Post-Conviction Notification After a defendant is convicted of their crime, a Post-Conviction Notification Form will be mailed to you. Arizona law requires you to opt-in to receive these notifications. Learn more about the process and how to participate with the folloring video(s): POST Conviction Videos: Victim’s Rights Post Conviction PCNR Después del veredicto POST Adjudication (Juvenile Defendant) Video: PANR Después de la sentencia ↑ Top Victim Restitution By paying restitution as part of a criminal sentence, offenders face a constant and significant reminder of the damage they have caused to their victims. Victims, in turn, can begin to return to a normal life when they are reimbursed for the financial harm they have endured. Restitution Request Form If you suffered a financial loss as a result of the defendant's conduct, a court may require the defendant to reimburse you. Restitution Request Form (PDF) Español: Formulario de solicitud de restitución (PDF) ↑ Top Victim Compensation The Crime Victim Compensation Program administered through the Maricopa County Attorney’s Office serves to assist crime victims and their families with crime-related expenses such as medical, mental health, funeral, crime scene clean up, and wage loss. The Victim Compensation Program is funded by both state and federal funding and is governed by the Arizona Criminal Justice Commission. Victim Compensation claims and requests are reviewed and decided by an independent board. All decisions are based on program rules and the availability of funding. Assistance is not guaranteed. If you or a loved one has been a victim of a crime and has suffered losses as described above, please contact the Victim Compensation Program at (602)506-4955. The Crime Victim Compensation Program is a payer of last resort. Therefore, all other available collateral sources must be utilized before compensation benefits can be paid. The Crime Victim Compensation Program does not cover property loss or damage, pain, and suffering, collisions ruled to be an accident, relocation, or rental/mortgage/utility expenses. In accordance with Federal civil rights law, MCAO Victim Services employees are prohibited from discriminating based on race, color, national origin, sex, disability, or age in the delivery of services. To file a Victim Compensation program complaint of discrimination, contact the Arizona Criminal Justice Commission at (602) 364-1146 or azcjc.gov Victim Compensation Program Eligibility Requirements You may be eligible for financial compensation for out-of-pocket crime-related expenses. Victim Compensation Program Eligibility Requirements (PDF) Español: Compensación a las víctimas Requisitos de elegibilidad del programa (PDF) Application for Crime Victim Compensation The State of Arizona Criminal Justice Commission Crime Victims Compensation Program Application is provided in English and Español. Apply Online: https://acjc.hostedbykarpel.com/ Application for Crime Victim Compensation / Solicitud de compensación para víctimas de crímenes (PDF) Victim Compensation Disclosure Statement Victim Compensation Disclosure Statement (PDF) Victim Compensation Board View Most Recent Agenda (PDF) View All Agendas View the 2026 Meeting Schedule (PDF) ↑ Top In accordance with A.R.S. 38-431.01, Subsection D, audio recordings and affiliated documents in relation to the Maricopa County Victim Compensation Program public meetings are available for inspection within three working days after each meeting. The information can be viewed at the Maricopa County Attorney’s Office, 225 W Madison, Phoenix, AZ 85003 during normal business hours, 9:00 AM - 5:00 PM. If you would like to inspect a record, please contact us at 602-506-4955. Victim Services Volunteer/Intern Application This form is designed for individuals who are interested in volunteering or interning with the Victim Services Division. Victim Services Division Volunteer/Intern Application (PDF) ↑ Top Facebook Twitter Pinterest Delicious Blogger LinkedIn Home My Account Printer Friendly Email Page Contact Us RSS Site Map Translate Page Notifications Documents Annual Reports & Protocols Public Meeting Notices Public Records Requests /QuickLinks.aspx Brochures, Forms & Information Criminal Justice Links Maricopa County Website - Maricopa.gov /QuickLinks.aspx Contact Us Join Our Team! Site Map Login /QuickLinks.aspx Loading Loading Do Not Show Again Close []