Crime Victims’ Compensation

Oregon Crime Victims’ Compensation (CVC) Program
was created to assist victims of violent crime with certain
expenses associated with the crime. Eligible crimes
include domestic violence, sexual assault, child abuse,
assault, homicide, hate/bias crimes, and other crimes
resulting in physical or psychological injury.
In the aftermath of a crime, CVC works to ease the
financial burden suffered by the crime victim and their
family. The CVC Program cannot pay for lost items or
property damage.

Am I Eligible for CVC?
To receive financial help from CVC, you must be a
victim of a compensable crime that happened in
Oregon.
Compensable crime means an intentional, reckless,
or criminal act (not an accident) by a person that
causes injury or death to another person.
Reporting Requirements

You may report your crime in one of the following ways:
• Report to law enforcement
• Report to a medical or mental health provider
• Obtain a protective order
• Obtain a forensic medical exam due to sexual assault
or strangulation
However, if you did not report a compensable crime, you
may still qualify for a Counseling Only benefit.
Compensation for Counseling Only

Victims of a compensable crime or incident who do not
meet reporting requirements may still qualify for
compensation for counseling expenses up to $5,000.
Contact CVC for more information at 503-378-3758 or
cvssd@doj.state.or.us.

o In cases of child physical and sex abuse,
counseling compensation can include
counseling for the victim’s family to assist the
victim in healing.
• Counseling benefit when reporting requirements for a
compensable crime are not met, up to $5,000.
• Counseling for children who witness domestic
violence, up to $10,000.
• Grief counseling for survivors of a deceased victim,
up to $20,000.
• Counseling benefit for witness to homicide, up to
$5,000.
• Counseling for friends or acquaintances of a
deceased victim of a compensable crime who
discover the deceased victim’s body, up to $5,000.
• Counseling for family members of an Oregon resident
who is a victim of international terrorism, up to
$1,000.
• Rehabilitation services, such as physical therapy, up
to $4,000.
• Reimbursement of mileage (50¢ per mile) for travel to
medical and mental health treatment, up to $3,000.
o Mileage reimbursement is available only when
someone must travel more than 60 miles
roundtrip and there are no closer services.
• Documented loss of earnings, up to $600 weekly, or
loss of support for dependent(s) of a deceased victim,
up to $800 weekly, for a maximum of $20,000.
• Lost wages for parents who provide care to their
minor child victim while the child heals from the
abuse, up to $5,000.
o Intermittent leave for doctor appointments does
not qualify.
• Crime scene clean-up, up to $2,500.
• Funeral expenses, up to $5,000. Additional benefit
available at discretion of CVC.

What Does CVC Pay For?
We pay health and service providers for crime-related
expenses, including:

You are not eligible for CVC if:

• Medical and counseling services, up to $20,000.

• The crime involved only property damage or loss.

• The injury or death resulted from your own criminal
conduct.

• The injury or death resulted from a noncriminal event
(an accident).
• The crime occurred before CVC became effective in
January 1978.

How Do I Submit an Application?
You can apply online, on paper, or in person.
• Apply online at the CVC Portal:
doj.state.or.us/cvcportal
• Download a printable application form at
doj.state.or.us/compensation.
Send or email the completed application to:
Crime Victim and Survivor Services Division
1162 Court Street NE, Salem, OR 97301-4096
Telephone: 503-378-5348
Fax: 503-378-5738
Email: cvssd@doj.state.or.us
• Apply at your local District Attorney’s Office Victim
Assistance Program or local community-based victim
services agency.

What Happens After I Submit an
Application?
When CVC receives an application, we review police
reports, medical charts, and other information to
determine if you’re eligible and which CVC benefits you
may be eligible for. If you do not meet the reporting
requirements, you may still qualify for a counseling
benefit. We notify you by mail or email when we receive
your application, and then again in 45–60 days to tell you
our claim decision.
Other Compensation

If you have other benefits available (health insurance, auto
insurance, workers compensation, Paid Leave Oregon,
etc.), you must use those before we can pay expenses.
CVC will pay for copays, deductibles, and crime-related
treatment that insurance does not cover within the scope
of this program.
If you receive crime-related money later (such as
restitution or lawsuit settlements) for the same services
CVC has paid for, you must pay back to CVC any money
that was paid to you.

Learn More About CVC
Visit doj.state.or.us/compensation for more information
about the Crime Victims’ Compensation Program and
other resources from the Crime Victim and Survivor
Services Division (CVSSD).
More Resources for Crime
Victims and Survivors
Address Confidentiality Program (ACP)
doj.state.or.us/ACP
Appellate Advocacy Program (AAP)
doj.state.or.us/AAP
Crime Victim Rights
doj.state.or.us/CVR
Bias Response Hotline
StandAgainstHate.Oregon.gov
Sanctuary Promise Hotline
SanctuaryPromise.Oregon.gov
PromesaSantuario.Oregon.gov

Crime Victims’
Compensation (CVC)

Hope Card Program
doj.state.or.us/hopecard
Save Fund
doj.state.or.us/SAVE

Financial help for
crime victims and survivors

Accessible Materials
For a more accessible version of this brochure, or to learn
about other ways to access this information and CVSSD
programs, contact us:
Email: cvssd@doj.state.or.us

Contact Us
Crime Victim and Survivor Services Division
Oregon Department of Justice
503-378-5348 or 1-800-503-7983
Email: cvssd@doj.state.or.us
Updated 2024

CVC

Call: 503-378-5348 or 1-800-503-7983

Crime Victims’ Compensation Program
Oregon Department of Justice
1162 Court Street NE
Salem, OR 97301–4096

Trafficking & Intervention Program
doj.state.or.us/htresources

Crime Victim and Survivor
Services Division
Oregon Department of Justice
503-378-5348
1-800-503-7983
doj.state.or.us/victims
Crime Victims’ Compensation Portal:
doj.state.or.us/cvcportal

Every victim, every crime,
every right, every time.

