SAVE Fund/SKIT Information for Medical Providers - Oregon Department of Justice  : Crime Victim and Survivor Services Skip to main content Crime Victim Compensation Compensation for Victims of Crime Applying for Crime Victims' Compensation (CVC) Frequently Asked Questions For Children's Advocacy Centers For Medical Providers Crime Victims' Compensation Information Karly's Law SAVE Fund/SKIT Information for Medical Providers For Advocates Payment Portal (Restitution) Restitution SAVE Fund/SKIT Information for Medical Providers Within this Section Crime Victims' Compensation Information Karly's Law SAVE Fund/SKIT Information for Medical Providers Are you a victim of a sexual assault or strangulation who wants to apply to the SAVE Fund for free medical care? Visit the SAVE Fund page in the CVSSD Services section . » Donate to the SAVE Fund » Maximum Benefits for SAVE Fund Services Beginning July 1, 2019, Maximum Benefits per OAR 137-084-0020 (1) and (2): $475.00 – Complete medical examination using SAFE Kit, no more than 120 hours after assault $215.00 – Partial medical examination without SAFE Kit, no more than 168 hours after assault $125.00 – Sexually Transmitted Disease prophylaxis dispensed $70.00 – Emergency contraception dispensed (including pregnancy test) $95.00 – Examination conducted by SANE (certified through the Oregon Sexual Assault Task Force or the International Association of Forensic Nurses) $95.00 – Examination conducted by a Doctor of Medicine or a Doctor of Osteopathy Up to five days of HIV prophylaxis will be paid at 50% of the amount charged Payment for all other services will be calculated using the Oregon Workers Compensation Fee Schedule $840.00 – Up to 5 counseling sessions with a licensed therapist SKIT Exams Beginning August 1, 2023, SKIT (strangulation) exams will be payable through the Crime Victim and Survivor Services Division per ORS 147.035 (2)(e). SKIT exams are paid through the SAVE Fund but the Fund will pay whether or not a sexual assault occurred. Providers will bill the victim’s health insurance and the Fund will pay the patient responsibility unless it poses a risk to do so. If insurance is not available these exams will be paid using the Oregon Workers’ Compensation fee schedule and the victim cannot be billed the fee schedule reduction. The maximum award for a SKIT exam is $5,000.00. As a medical provider, please use the SAFE or SKIT applications linked below. Please help each victim seeking SAVE Fund assistance complete a short portion of the form. You must then complete the remainder of the form and submit the application, along with an itemized bill, to the Crime Victim and Survivor Services Division. Applications can be submitted by email to save@doj.oregon.gov or mailed to: SAVE Fund Oregon Department of Justice Crime Victim and Survivor Services Division 1162 Court Street NE Salem, OR 97301 SKIT Application and Billing Form (PDF)» SAFE Application and Billing Form (PDF)» SAVE Fund Administrative Rules » Contact Information If you have any questions regarding the SAVE Fund, please contact Valerie Smith at 503-378-6254 or save@doj.oregon.gov . SAVE Fund FAQs Open All Can services to children be billed to the SAVE Fund? Yes, if the child meets all eligibility requirements. The SAVE Fund is not intended to replace the child abuse medical assessment, which is instrumental in determining if abuse or neglect occurred. The assessment also provides a holistic, sensitive approach to responding to a child’s needs. The primary focus of this fund is adolescent and adult sexual assault victims who, for a variety of reasons, might not currently seek health care after an assault. How does the billing process work? The victim and provider submit a completed SAVE Fund submission form, along with the provider’s itemized bill, for services provided to the victim. There is a maximum amount the Fund will pay for each service, as noted above. Payment may be denied and more information requested if the form is incomplete or appropriate billing is not attached. What if I am the second provider of a service for the same incident of assault? The SAVE Fund will not pay for duplicative services, necessary follow up treatment or examination services for the same incident. Can a hospital submit an application for the balance not paid by insurance? No. If a victim chooses to bill insurance then neither the victim, nor the hospital, can bill the SAVE Fund for balances or copays remaining after insurance payments. However, the victim can submit an application to the Crime Victims’ Compensation Program and, if accepted, will have a copay or any outstanding out-of-pocket costs considered for payment. For services covered by the SAVE Fund, can a provider bill insurance for remaining amounts after the Fund has paid? A. No; see OAR 137-084-0020(4). A provider that bills the Fund for a complete or partial medical assessment cannot bill the victim or the victim’s insurance for any remaining costs not paid by the Fund.  The payment for these services by the Fund is considered “Payment in Full.”

However, if the Fund does not pay the bill due to lack of funds or for any reason(s) other than untimely or incomplete submission of the bill (see OAR 137-084-0030(2)(3) »), then the provider can bill the victim or victim’s insurance for the costs mentioned above.

Further, a provider can always bill the victim or the victim’s insurance for those other costs that the Fund will not cover that may be associated with a sexual assault exam. These costs include but are not limited to: Follow up treatment DNA testing Prescriptions filled off-site of the location of the medical examination Transportation What are some of the other reasons why the SAVE Fund would not pay a provider for services rendered? The Fund reserves the right not to pay for medical services described in 2003 Oregon Laws, Ch. 789 or OAR 137-084-0001 through 137-084-0030 for any of the following reasons: The application form submitted by the provider was not filled out completely (front and back), did not have complete invoices or billing statements attached, or was submitted more than one year from the date of service. Services were not provided by an eligible medical services provider. Services were provided to someone other than an eligible victim. Services were not provided in accordance with the requirements in 2003 Oregon Laws, Ch. 789 or OAR 137-084-0001 through 137-084-0030, including the timeline requirements for a complete medical assessment (within 120 hours of the sexual assault), and partial medical assessment (within 168 hours of the sexual assault). Services provided were duplicate services for the same incident. Insufficient funds in the SAVE Fund to cover the services provided. Share Share Share Email Print