Compensation for Victims of Crime - Oregon Department of Justice  : Crime Victim and Survivor Services Skip to main content Crime Victim Compensation Compensation for Victims of Crime Applying for Crime Victims' Compensation (CVC) Frequently Asked Questions For Children's Advocacy Centers For Medical Providers Crime Victims' Compensation Information Karly's Law SAVE Fund/SKIT Information for Medical Providers For Advocates Payment Portal (Restitution) Restitution Compensation for Victims of Crime Need Immediate Help? Shelters, Advocacy Programs and Legal Assistance » To connect with a trained advocate from a domestic violence or sexual assault victim service agency near you, use this link. Tribal Nations Victim Service Programs (PDF) Eligibility requirements may vary between programs. National Suicide Prevention Hotline » Use this link or call 988 for suicide prevention. County Victim-Assistance Programs To connect with your county District Attorney’s office trained advocate for help navigating the criminal justice system, and understanding your rights, use this link. State and Federal Rental Assistance » For assistance with rent, use this link. 211 » Call 211, a confidential number, to be directed to resources for food, housing, utilities, mental health, healthcare expenses and other local resources. Hate/Bias Crime and Incident Reports For information about hate or bias crime and incidents, use this link. Consumer and Business Fraud For information about consumer protection, use this link. Oregon State Bar Lawyer Referral and Modest Means Programs » Use this link to find an attorney; or call 800-452-7636. Legal Aid » Find a legal aid office in your county though this link. Disability Rights Oregon » For legal help and advocacy for crime survivors with disabilities, use this link. Easing Financial Burdens for Victims and Their Families Oregon Crime Victims’ Compensation (CVC) Program was created to assist victims of violent crime with expenses associated with the crime. This includes domestic violence, sexual assault, child abuse, robbery, (CVC cannot replace items that were stolen during the robbery), assault, homicide, or other compensable crime resulting in a physical or psychological injury. In the aftermath of a crime, CVC works to ease the financial burden suffered by thousands of Oregonians each year. CVC is unable to provide immediate financial assistance and the only monetary reimbursements that can be made are related to lost wages and reimbursements for crime-related expenses. CVC can not reimburse damages for property crimes, or pay for relocation costs. If you are looking for housing assistance, please contact your local advocacy program » . If you received a pocket card from law enforcement, please reach out to the number listed for your local County Victim Assistance Program for assistance. An approved claim may include the following benefits for victims and their families: Oregon Administrative Rules, Chapter 137, Division 76 » Oregon Revised Statutes » Mental health counseling expenses for victims and family members of children of sexual or physical abuse with a licensed provider Medical and hospital expenses Replacement of damaged eyeglasses, hearing aids, dentures and other medically necessary devices and expenses (must be mentioned in the police report or medical chart notes) Rehabilitation expenses (up to $4,000 award) Loss of earnings (missed earnings must be verified and more than two weeks must be verified by a physician – Paid Leave Oregon and Short Term Disability are considered prior resources to CVC lost wages reimbursement) Funeral expenses (up to $5,000 award payable to a funeral service provider. An additional benefit may be accessible to families who have paid out of pocket for additional costs associated with funeral, burial, memorial, or celebration of life costs.) Loss of financial support to dependents of homicide victims (The victim’s earnings and dependents of the victim must be verified.) Grief counseling expenses for relatives of homicide victims with a licensed provider Counseling expenses for children who witness domestic violence with a licensed provider Counseling expenses for family members of any victim of international terrorism who resides in Oregon Crime scene clean-up (up to $2,500) when a compensable crime occurred in a private residence Loss of wage reimbursement for guardians of minor child victims, up to $5,000 (the parent or guardian must be caring for the child’s physical or emotional needs following the compensable crime to be eligible for this reimbursement) Limited counseling benefit for victims who experience compensable crimes who do not report to law enforcement, receive an order of protection or receive a forensic examination. ($5,000 benefit) Medical insurance is a prior resource and must be utilized prior to CVC reimbursement. If a crime involved a motor vehicle, auto insurance must be utilized prior to CVC reimbursement. How to Apply for Crime Victims’ Compensation (CVC) Brochures Crime Victims’ Compensation (PDF) Crime Victims’ Compensation – (Screen Reader) Compensación Para Víctimas de Crímen (PDF) Crime Victims’ Compensation – Russian (PDF) Crime Victims’ Compensation – Korean (PDF) Crime Victims’ Compensation – Vietnamese (PDF) Crime Victims’ Compensation – Simplified Chinese (PDF) Understanding Crime Victims’ Compensation and Child Assessment Centers (PDF) Understanding Crime Victims’ Compensation and Child Assessment Centers – (Screen Reader) Entiendo El Programa de Compensación Para Victimas de Crimen Y Centros de Evaluación Infantil (PDF) Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Oregon Department of Justice 1162 Court St. NE Salem, Oregon 97301-4096 Phone: 503-378-5348 Fax: 503-378-5738 Email: CVSSD@doj.oregon.gov Share Share Share Email Print