Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) - Oregon Department of Justice  : Crime Victim and Survivor Services Skip to main content Victims' Services Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) Frequently Asked Questions Hope Card Program Hope Card - Toolkit for Law Enforcement Crime Victims' Rights Program Appellate Advocacy Program Legal Help Sexual Assault Victims' Emergency Medical Response (SAVE) Fund Human Trafficking Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) Within this Section Frequently Asked Questions Protecting Addresses for Victims The Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) is a free mail forwarding service. It helps survivors of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, human trafficking, bias crimes or bias incidents shield their physical address. Health care providers who provide physical and behavioral reproductive and gender-affirming health care also can participate in ACP. Program participants are provided with a substitute address to use instead of their real address. Participants may use the substitute address for: the delivery of first class, certified and registered mail obtaining an Oregon driver’s license or ID card receiving or paying child support applying for a marriage license enrolling dependents in public school Participation in the ACP by itself does not guarantee anyone’s safety. ACP staff do not provide threat-assessment or safety-planning and are not allowed to offer legal advice. Apply With a Certified Application Assistant To apply to the Address Confidentiality Program, you must work with a victim advocate who has been designated as an Application Assistant by the Attorney General. Health care providers who provide reproductive and gender-affirming health care must apply with the Oregon Department of Justice Civil Rights Unit, at 503-378-6324. Find an Application Assistant near you » . Access to the CVSSD Online Training Library requires setting up a free account on Workday Learning. Instructions are below. Advocates who are interested in becoming a Certified Application Assistant (AA) need to complete the following steps: Register for Workday Learning; instructions ( English )» ( Spanish )» Log in to Workday Learning and complete the online course “DOJ-CVSSD-Introduction to the Address Confidentiality Program”. Advocates who are renewing their agreement can start here. Fill out the AA Agreement (PDF)» . Send the AA Agreement along with the certificate received upon completion of the ACP course to acp@doj.oregon.gov . To stay active as an Application Assistant, advocates must renew their certification every two years. This includes re-taking the online course, filling out the AA Agreement and emailing it with the certificate received to acp@doj.oregon.gov . Helpful Information Is ACP for Me? (brochure)(PDF)» ¿Es ACP para mi? (el folleto) (PDF)» Change of Address or Withdrawal Form (PDF) » Frequently Asked Questions » Contact the Address Confidentiality Program ACP staff work with applicants and participants by phone, fax, email or regular mail. If you choose to write using the P.O. Box below, please include your contact information so we can reach you. ACP P.O. Box 1108 Salem, OR 97308 Phone: 503-373-1323 Toll-free (Oregon only): 1-888-559-9090 Fax: 503-373-1340 Email: ACP@doj.oregon.gov Oregon Laws and Rules for the Address Confidentiality Program OAR Chapter 137 Division 79 Address Confidentiality Program » Oregon Revised Statutes 192.820 to 192.868 Address Confidentiality Program » Proposed and Final Changes Filed in the Last 90 Days There are no currently proposed rule changes for these rules. Share Share Share Email Print