Voting: South Dakota Secretary of State Select a
                                                box and SCROLL DOWN Address Confidentiality - Secure Active Designation South Dakota Codified Law 12-4-9.2 allows a person eligible to vote who resides in a shelter or who has obtained  an active protection order to apply to be listed in the voter registration file  with a secured active voter designation. South Dakota’s Secure Active  Designation program is designed to protect the locations of individuals whose  safety and livelihoods have been compromised by unfortunate circumstances, such  as domestic violence, stalking, harassment and rape. Individuals enrolled into  the program may safely exercise their right to vote since their actual address  is not listed in the public voter registration records. 12-4-9.2 . Secured active designation. A person eligible to vote under 12-4-1 may apply to the secretary of state to be listed in the master registration file with a secured active designation. The secretary of state shall certify a secured active designation if an applicant provides a sworn application that affirms one of the following: (1) The applicant has obtained an active protection order under chapter 25-10 or chapter 22-19A , which the secretary of state shall verify with the Unified Judicial System; or (2) The applicant resides in a shelter established pursuant to chapter 25-10 . The applicant shall obtain authorization signed by an official of the shelter. Upon receipt of the application, the secretary of state shall verify with the Unified Judicial System that the applicant petitioned for the protection order and the order is active. A voter record with a secured active designation shall be excluded from public inspection or copying, except if requested by a law enforcement agency, if directed by a court order, or if a secured active designation has been cancelled at the request of the secured active designee. A secured active designation remains in effect for five years. The State Board of Elections shall promulgate rules, pursuant to chapter 1-26 , to prescribe the notices and forms, as well as any criteria and procedures for approving applications pursuant to this section. Secured Active Designation  Application and Cancellation. Applicants applying as residents of a victims’ services  shelter are required to obtain the signature of an authorized shelter official.  This designation excludes the applicant’s voter record from public inspection  or copying, except if requested by a law enforcement agency, court order, or  cancelled at the request of the applicant. Application Cancellation Victims’ Services Shelter  Signature Authorizations. As part of the authorization process, our office  is required to obtain signature authorizations from the qualifying shelter(s).  To become an authorized service shelter, please complete this form and include  the shelter officials who will be authorized to sign as part of the program: Victims’ Services  Shelter Signature Authorizations Form Secured Active Designation  Program Shelters. The SDSOS keeps an updated  list of Secured Active Designation shelters. If your shelter’s contact  information needs to be updated, please email [email protected] All Secure Active  Designation forms need to be submitted to : Office of the Secretary of State Attn: Elections Division 500 East Capitol Avenue, Suite 204 Pierre, SD 57501