DPS - Department of Public Safety - Eligibility and Apply CS Knowledge Article View Eligibility and Apply Article metadata. This article was updated 6mo ago 6 months ago This article has 203 views. 203 Views You may file a claim for compensation from the South Dakota Crime Victims’ Compensation Program if you or a family member has suffered personal injury as a result of: Violent crime Trying to stop a person committing a crime Trying to help a law enforcement officer Trying to help a victim of a crime or Witnessing a violent crime Please call (605) 773-6317 for more information or assistance. Compensation Program Awards of compensation of up to $15,000 may be made from the South Dakota Crime Victims’ Compensation Fund . Compensation is approved by the Department of Public Safety and funded through a court surcharge on criminal offenders. Compensation is available only to the extent that funds are generated from the surcharge. No compensation can be awarded when money is not available, and compensation is only available for persons who meet the eligibility requirements. Not all crimes or expenses are covered. Eligibility The crime must have occurred on or after July 1, 1992. The crime must be reported to law enforcement within five days of its occurrence or when a report could reasonably have been made. The claim for compensation must be filed within one year of the crime unless good cause is shown for the delay in filing. The victim and claimant must reasonably cooperate in the investigation and prosecution of the incident. Compensation cannot be paid to a claimant if it would unjustly benefit the offender or an accomplice. The victim cannot contribute to the crime or the injury nor have committed a crime at the time of the incident. Claims may be denied based upon contributory conduct. Apply Options to apply: You may apply online for Crime Victims' Compensation through MAVIS. You may complete a Crime Victims' Compensation Application form and submit it by sending the application through the mail or email a digital copy to us . See the Primary Application Instructions . Qualifications of a secondary victim: the person must be an immediate family member of the primary victim who has experienced hardship as a result of the crime. Immediate family members may include spouse, parents, children, siblings, grandparents and grandchildren. See the Crime Victims’ Compensation Secondary Application . View the secondary application and instructions . Claim Process Upon receipt of the application, law enforcement, physicians, service providers, etc. are contacted to verify all information. The Department of Public Safety reviews the claim and decides whether the claim is eligible and the amount to be paid. The claimant has the right to appeal the decision to the Crime Victims’ Compensation Commission. Types of Assistance Compensation may be available for expenses incurred as a direct result of the criminal acts of another person if not covered by another source. Examples of expenses covered under the law are: Medical care Rehabilitation Funeral expenses Loss of income Counseling Dental expenses Child care costs Mileage An attorney is not required, and compensation cannot be paid for attorney’s fees. There is no filing fee. Emergency Awards Emergency awards of up to $1,000 may be made under extraordinary circumstances. An award may be made for immediate verifiable needs as a result of loss of income or support, emergency medical expenses or funeral expenses. Any emergency award will be deducted from the final award and must be deducted from expenses already incurred. Copy Permalink