DPS - Department of Public Safety - Crime Victims' Compensation Program DPS - Department of Public Safety - Crime Victims' Compensation Program Crime Victims' Compensation Program Article metadata. This article was updated 6mo ago 6 months ago This article has 281 views. 281 Views Allowable Expenses and Available Benefits The South Dakota Crime Victims' Compensation (CVC) Program provides monetary assistance to victims of violent crimes. This program, administered by the Department of Public Safety, can pay victims of state, tribal, or federal crimes, a maximum of $15,000 for expenses incurred as a direct result of personal injury or death. Please call (605) 773-6317 for more information or assistance. Expenses must be reasonable in amount and may include: Medical expenses Mental health counseling expenses Mileage Funeral and burial expenses Loss of earnings or support Dental and prosthetic devices Eyeglasses or corrective lenses Homicide scene cleanup expenses Replacement costs for personal property used as evidence Other similar expenses Requirements & Limitations The program is a last resort for payment. In most cases, payments can only be made if there is no other source of payment including private health insurance for the victim or other public programs such as Medicaid or Medicare, etc. However, there are no income requirements. Compensation cannot be paid for property losses, attorney's fees, or pain and suffering. There may be limitations to the amount of compensation for the expenses listed above. Compensation can be paid for expenses for the primary victim as well as limited compensation for secondary victims including family members of a homicide victim, the spouse of a rape victim and parents of a child who has been physically or sexually abused. Not all victims qualify for assistance. Program staff determine if the victim is eligible for assistance after the victim or claimant has filed an application and the information verified. Check your eligibility for assistance . Copy Permalink