Wyoming Statutes § 6-2-309 (2025) - Medical Examination of Victim; Costs; Use of Report; Minors; Rights of Victims; Reimbursement. :: 2025 Wyoming Statutes :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Wyoming Stat. (here) 2024 Wyoming Stat. 2023 Wyoming Stat. View All Versions 2025 Wyoming Statutes Title 6 - Crimes and Offenses Chapter 2 - Offenses Against the Person Article 3 - Sexual Assault Section 6-2-309 - Medical Examination of Victim; Costs; Use of Report; Minors; Rights of Victims; Reimbursement. Universal Citation: WY Stat § 6-2-309 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next 6-2-309. Medical examination of victim; costs; use of report; minors; rights of victims; reimbursement. (a) A law enforcement agency receiving a report of a sexual assault may, with the victim's consent, arrange for an examination of the victim by a licensed health care provider acting within the scope of the provider's practice. The examination may include a medical examination and treatment, evidence collection and evaluation, and appropriate referrals for follow-up treatment and services. Upon consent of the victim to release of the results of the examination, the evidence, record and reports shall be delivered to the law enforcement agency. (b) Repealed By Laws 2006, Chapter 77, § 2. (c) Repealed by Laws 1991, ch. 130, § 2. (d) Repealed By Laws 2006, Chapter 77, § 2. (e) If a report of a sexual assault is received from a minor victim, and the parents or guardian of the minor cannot be located promptly with diligent effort, the examination provided for by subsection (a) of this section may be conducted with the minor's consent. If a report of a sexual assault is received alleging a minor as the victim and a parent or guardian is the suspected perpetrator, the parent or guardian who is the suspected perpetrator shall not be notified pursuant to this section. (f) Repealed By Laws 2006, Chapter 77, § 2. (g) Except as provided by subsection (j) of this section, the costs of any examination relating to the investigation or prosecution of a sexual assault shall be billed to and paid by the victim services division of the office of the attorney general contingent upon available funding. The victim services division shall promulgate any rules necessary to effectuate payments required under this subsection. If victim services division funds are no longer available to meet the purposes of this subsection, the cost of any examination relating to the investigation or prosecution of sexual assault shall be billed to and paid by the investigating law enforcement agency. These examination costs shall include the following: (i) The cost of gathering evidence; and (ii) Any other examinations authorized by law enforcement to aid in the investigation and prosecution of the sexual assault. (h) Except as provided by subsection (j) of this section, any examination costs directly incurred by a sexual assault victim that are not covered by subsection (g) of this section, or other collateral source, shall be submitted to the victim services division within the office of the attorney general for determination of eligibility for payment from the crime victims compensation account established by W.S. 1-40-114. All requests for compensation from the account shall be subject to the eligibility guidelines set forth in the Crime Victims Compensation Act, W.S. 1-40-101 through 1-40-119. (j) A convicted offender of a sexual assault shall be ordered to reimburse any costs incurred under subsections (g) and (h) of this section and any other costs incurred as a direct result of the sexual assault. (k) Each victim reporting a sexual assault shall be informed of the rights enumerated in this section, the victim's rights to informed consent and the victim's rights as a victim of crime. The victim shall also be informed of available medical, legal and advocacy services. (m) The examinations authorized by this section shall remain confidential healthcare information unless the victim or the victim's parent or legal guardian executes a release of medical information for the purpose of prosecution to the county attorney, the state of Wyoming or any relevant court. However, if the report of sexual assault described in subsection (a) of this section results in the filing against any person of a criminal charge, or the filing of a petition alleging a delinquent act which would be a felony if committed by an adult, the written report disclosing the results of an examination made pursuant to this section shall be made available to the person charged or his counsel upon demand. (n) No evidence collected under subsection (a) of this section shall be destroyed until all applicable statutes of limitation have expired or a court orders the destruction. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Wyoming may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Sam Bernstein Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 883-9584 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Traffic Tickets, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Joseph Brugnoli PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, White Collar Crime, Juvenile Law Website Email Call Email Profile William McCririe PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Domestic Violence, Juvenile Law Website Email Call Email Profile Daniel T. Geherin PREMIUM (734) 263-2780 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Domestic Violence, Personal Injury, Civil Rights Website Email Call Email Profile Timothy Doman PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Appeals & Appellate Website Email Call Email Profile Peter Samouris PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Appeals & Appellate, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Scott Grabel Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Appeals & Appellate, Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new Wyoming Supreme Court - Criminal Law opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions