Wyoming Statutes § 1-40-109 (2025) - Standards for Compensation. :: 2025 Wyoming Statutes :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Wyoming Stat. (here) 2024 Wyoming Stat. 2023 Wyoming Stat. View All Versions 2025 Wyoming Statutes Title 1 - Code of Civil Procedure Chapter 40 - Crime Victims Compensation Article 1 - In General Section 1-40-109 - Standards for Compensation. Universal Citation: WY Stat § 1-40-109 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next 1-40-109. Standards for compensation. (a) For the purpose of determining the amount of compensation payable pursuant to this act, the division, insofar as practicable, shall formulate standards for uniform application of this act and shall take into consideration rates and amounts of compensation payable for injuries and death under other laws of this state and of the United States and the availability of funds under this act. (b) Loss of earnings and loss of future earnings shall be determined on the basis of the victim's average monthly earnings for the six (6) months immediately preceding the date of the injury, or the current federal minimum wage, whichever is less. (c) Loss of support shall be determined on the basis of the victim's or defendant's average monthly earnings for the six (6) months immediately preceding the date of the injury, or the current federal minimum wage, whichever is less. (d) Except as provided in subsection (e) of this section, the maximum individual award of compensation paid to any victim or dependent shall not exceed fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00). Compensation shall only be awarded for economic losses occurring within a twenty-four (24) month period from the date of the injury or discovery of the crime. However, the division may extend the twenty-four (24) month period to allow compensation for mental health counseling and care occurring within an additional twelve (12) month period for a total of thirty-six (36) months. (e) In addition to the maximum award authorized in subsection (d) of this section, in the case of catastrophic injury the division may award an additional amount not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) to the victim to cover future lost wages, special medical needs and any other special assistance needed as a result of the injury. The additional award may be made only for economic losses occurring within twenty-four (24) months after the date of the injury or discovery of the crime. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Wyoming may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Steven Gursten Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (855) 975-0874 Ann Arbor, MI Personal Injury Website Email Call Email Profile Daniel T. Geherin PREMIUM (734) 263-2780 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Domestic Violence, Personal Injury, Civil Rights Website Email Call Email Profile James Iafrate Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 994-0200 Ann Arbor, MI Personal Injury, Insurance Claims, Products Liability Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new Wyoming Supreme Court opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions