Wyoming Statutes § 1-40-110 (2025) - Compensation Award. :: 2025 Wyoming Statutes :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Wyoming Stat. (here) 2024 Wyoming Stat. 2023 Wyoming Stat. View All Versions 2025 Wyoming Statutes Title 1 - Code of Civil Procedure Chapter 40 - Crime Victims Compensation Article 1 - In General Section 1-40-110 - Compensation Award. Universal Citation: WY Stat § 1-40-110 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next 1-40-110. Compensation award. (a) If a person is injured or killed by a criminal act, the division may order the payment of compensation in accordance with this act for: (i) Expenses actually and reasonably incurred as a result of the personal injury or death of the victim, by the victim, his dependent, or any person responsible for the victim's maintenance; (ii) Loss of earning power as a result of the victim's total or partial incapacity; (iii) Economic loss to the deceased victim's dependents; and (iv) Any other loss resulting from the personal injury or death of the victim which the division determines to be reasonable. (b) In determining whether to award compensation under this act, the division shall consider: (i) All circumstances surrounding the victim's conduct determined to be relevant which directly contributed to the victim's injury or death; (ii) Need for financial aid; and (iii) Any other relevant matters. (c) The division shall not consider whether the alleged assailant has been apprehended, prosecuted or convicted, nor the result of any criminal proceedings against him. (d) The crime victims compensation account is not a state health program and is not intended to be used as a primary payor to other health care assistance programs, but is a public, quasi-charitable fund whose fundamental purpose is to assist victims of violent crimes through a period of financial hardship as a payor of last resort. Payment made in accordance with this section shall be considered payment of last resort that follows all other sources and is provided subsequent to all other benefits. Accordingly, in determining the amount of compensation to be allowed by order, the division shall consider amounts received or receivable from any other source or sources by the victim or his dependents as a result of the incident or offense giving rise to the application. The division shall not deny compensation solely because the applicant is entitled to income from a collateral source. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Wyoming may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Steven Gursten Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (855) 975-0874 Ann Arbor, MI Personal Injury Website Email Call Email Profile Daniel T. Geherin PREMIUM (734) 263-2780 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Domestic Violence, Personal Injury, Civil Rights Website Email Call Email Profile James Iafrate Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 994-0200 Ann Arbor, MI Personal Injury, Insurance Claims, Products Liability Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new Wyoming Supreme Court opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions