Victim Services - SANE Search this site Embedded Files Skip to main content Skip to navigation View in Spanish SANE Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner Wyoming Forensic / SANE Nursing A sexual assault is a devastating trauma to victims both physically and emotionally. Victims of sexual assault deserve prompt and comprehensive care in medical facilities. Victims should receive medical care for the evaluations and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases and pregnancy concerns. Victims should be offered options of care and reporting options when requesting care from medical facilities. What is a SANE? A Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) is a registered nurse who has advanced education and clinical preparation in forensic examination of sexual assault victims. SANE programs make a profound difference in the quality of care provided to sexual assault victims. SANEs offer victims prompt, compassionate care and comprehensive forensic evidence collection. In addition to helping preserve the victims dignity and reduce trauma, SANE programs enhance evidence collection for more effective investigations and better prosecutions. Wyoming SANE Exam Providers Listed By County How are SANE exams paid for? Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner Adult (SANE-A) Clinical Training: This in-person adult/adolescent Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) training program is geared toward the Registered Nurse and Advanced Practice Registered Nurses. Students must have a minimum of an RN license before beginning this course and 1-2 years of experience in a critical care field is recommended. The 64-hour SANE-A and SANE-P online didactic must be completed prior to clinical training. Travel assistance th rough WCADVSA is available up to $500 to help cover lodging, mileage, and per diem . Next Training Dates: April 9-10, 2026  Banner Health Center (Casper, WY). To register please click here. May 15-16, 2026  Banner Health Center (Casper, WY). To register please click here. Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner Adult (SANE-A) Clinical Refresher Course: One-day, in-person course designed for nurses that have already completed SANE-A Didactic and Clinical Training and would like to refresh their SANE exam skills. Next training: March 14, 2026  Banner Health Center  (Casper, WY). To register please click here. Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner Skills Lab - Next training time and location to be determined. Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner Pediatric (SANE-P) Training : This five-day advanced seminar provides specialized education for SANE's to provide comprehensive services to victims across the life span. The seminar will emphasize the medical and forensic sexual assault examination of child victims. Topics for this seminar include interviewing children, normal physical findings, medical conditions and trauma-related findings. Interactive case studies along with small group work will compliment course materials. Next training time and location to be determined. Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner Adult/Adolescent and Pediatrics Online Course: A combined 64-hour Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner online course, approved by the International Association of Forensic Nurses (IAFN) and hosted by the Wyoming Coalition Against Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault. Modules are pre-recorded PowerPoint presentations, requiring completion of pre- and post- module quizzes and completion of an exam to receive a course completion certificate. Developed and taught by qualified forensic nurse examiners with Wyoming experience, with additional instruction by child advocacy, legal, law enforcement, pediatric NP, and violence and trauma. To register please click here . Additional Resources: More information about forensic nursing can be found at the International Association of Forensic Nurses website. For a list of the different Wyoming Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Advocacy Programs throughout the state, click here. What is Sexual Assault Brochure Report abuse Page details Page updated Report abuse