Victim Services - Compensation Search this site Embedded Files Skip to main content Skip to navigation View in Spanish Compensation & Restitution Victims and their families must deal with the emotional, physical, and financial aftermath of crime. The compensation program helps innocent victims and their families when they have no other means of paying for the financial cost of crime. The compensation program is funded by the Division of Victim Services. The money in the Crime Victims Compensation Fund comes from people who break the law. Crime Victims Compensation Act Victim and Witness Bill of Rights Compensation Guidelines and Policy Frequently Asked Questions Restitution National research studies indicate that restitution is one of the most significant factors affecting the satisfaction of victims with the criminal justice process. Restitution is a concept of personal accountability for the consequences of one's conduct, and the allied notion that the person who causes the damage should bear the cost. DVS coordinates financial recovery through restitution to assure the maximum amount of monies are collected or recovered on behalf of eligible victims for the Crime Victims Compensation Program. Crime Victim Compensation Applications If you would like to apply for the Crime Victim Compensation Program, please contact a victim service provider local to you. A current list of service providers in Wyoming can be found here . These programs will provide you with a Crime Victim Compensation application, assist you in filling out all necessary forms, and submit them to our office. Primary Victim Compensation Application - SAMPLE Associated Victim Compensation Application - SAMPLE P etición de Compensación a la Víctima Principal - EJEMPLO Petición de Compensación a la Víctima Asociada - EJE MPLO Additional Forms Articles Taken As Evidence Reimbursement Mileage Reimbursement Employment Certification (Lost Wages) Primary Victim Compensation Application Instructions Primary Victim Compensation Application Instructions (Español) Self-Employment Verification of Lost Wages Loss of Support Verification Mental Health Treatment Certification (For Providers) W-9 W-8BEN Report abuse Page details Page updated Report abuse