ARTICLE 1 - IN GENERAL
1-40-101. Short title.
This act is known and may be cited as the "Crime Victims
Compensation Act".

1-40-102. Definitions.
(a) As used in this act:
(i) "Account" means the crime victims' compensation
account established by W.S. 1-40-114;
(ii) Repealed By Laws 1998, ch. 81, § 3.
(iii) "Criminal act" means an act committed or
attempted in this state, including an act of domestic violence,
which constitutes a crime as defined by the laws of this state
or an act of terrorism, as defined by 18 U.S.C. 2331 committed
outside the United States, and which results in actual bodily
injury, or actual mental harm, or death to the victim. No act
involving the operation of a motor vehicle, boat or aircraft
which results in injury or death constitutes a crime for the
purpose of this act unless the injury or death was recklessly or
intentionally inflicted through the use of the vehicle, boat or
aircraft, or unless the act constitutes a violation of W.S. 315-233;
(iv) "Dependent" means any relative of the victim who
was wholly or partially dependent upon the victim's income at
the time of his injury or death and includes the child of the
victim born after his death;
(v) "Economic loss" means and includes medical and
hospital expenses, loss of earnings, loss of future earnings
resulting from the injury, funeral and burial expenses and loss
of support to the dependents of the victim to include home
maintenance and child care;
(vi) "Medical expense" includes the cost of all
medical and dental services, mental health counseling and care,
dental and prosthetic devices, eyeglasses or other corrective
lenses, and services rendered in accordance with any method of
healing recognized by the law of this state;

(vii) "Personal injury" means actual bodily injury or
actual mental harm;
(viii) "Relative of the victim" means his spouse,
parent, grandparent, stepparent, child including natural born
child, stepchild or adopted child, grandchild, brother or
sister;
(ix) "Victim" means:
(A) A person who suffers personal injury or is
killed in this state as a direct result of:
(I) A criminal act of another person;
(II) The person's good faith and reasonable
effort in attempting to prevent the commission of a criminal
act, or to apprehend a person engaging in a criminal act or
assisting a law enforcement officer to do so;
(III) Assisting or attempting to assist a
person against whom a crime is being perpetrated or attempted;
(IV) A federal crime occurring in Wyoming.
(B) A resident who is a victim of a crime
occurring outside this state if:
(I) The crime would be compensable had it
occurred inside this state; and
(II) The crime occurred in a state which
does not have a crime victim compensation program, for which the
victim is eligible as eligibility is set forth in W.S. 1-40-101
through 1-40-119.
(C) A resident of this state who is injured or
killed by an act of terrorism, as defined by 18 U.S.C. 2331,
committed outside the United States;
(D) Family members who are Wyoming residents and
who have suffered a pecuniary loss as a result of a terrorist
attack in the United States, regardless of the actual victim's
residency;
(E) A resident of this state who is a victim of a
crime involving terrorism occurring outside this state if:

(I) The crime would be compensable had it
occurred within this state; and
(II) The resident of this state suffered a
pecuniary loss as a direct result of the act of terrorism
committed in another state of the United States.
(x) "Division" means the victim services division
within the office of the attorney general, created by W.S. 9-1636;
(xi) "Catastrophic injury" means any permanent
disability of limbs or functions as a result of being a victim
of a crime;
(xii) "Clandestine laboratory operation remediation"
means a remediation of a clandestine laboratory operation
carried out by a law enforcement agency acting as an emergency
responder pursuant to W.S. 35-9-152(a)(i).

1-40-103. Repealed By Laws 1998, ch. 81, § 3.
1-40-104. Division powers and duties.
(a) The division shall:
(i) Hear and determine all matters relating to claims
for compensation;
(ii) Publish annually a report showing its fiscal
transactions for the preceding year, the amount of its
accumulated cash and securities and a balance sheet showing its
financial condition by means of an actuarial evaluation of
commission assets and liabilities;
(iii) Keep a true and accurate record of all its
proceedings, which record is open to public inspection at all
reasonable hours;
(iv) Promulgate reasonable rules and regulations
necessary to carry out the purpose of this act pursuant to the
Wyoming Administrative Procedure Act;
(v) Perform any other functions necessary to carry out
the purpose of this act;

(vi) Hearings and final decisions on victim's
compensations awards conducted by the division shall be exempt
from the Wyoming Administrative Procedure Act, including the
provisions for judicial review under W.S. 16-3-114 and 16-3-115.
(b) In addition to any other powers specified by law, the
division is empowered to:
(i) Request access to any reports of investigations,
medical records or other data necessary to assist the division
in making a determination of eligibility for compensation under
this act. Upon authorization of the attorney general, law
enforcement officials, state agencies and local government units
shall provide assistance or information requested by the
division;
(ii) Publicize the availability of compensation and
information regarding the filing of claims;
(iii) Investigate claims;
(iv) Repealed By Laws 1998, ch. 81, § 3.
(v) Subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance,
require the production of records and other evidence, administer
oaths or affirmations, conduct hearings and receive relevant
evidence;
(vi) Apply for and accept and administer monies from
the federal government, its agencies and all other sources,
public and private, for carrying out any of its functions;
(vii) Collect, develop, analyze and maintain
statistical information, records and reports as the division
determines relevant or necessary to carry out its powers and
duties pursuant to this act;
(viii) After exhausting all alternatives available in
paragraphs (i), (iii), (v) and (vi) of this subsection, direct
and pay for medical examinations of victims as the division
determines necessary to verify claims of economic loss due to
injury;
(ix) Collect all monies authorized by this act to be
collected by the division; and

(x) Pay all compensation or other benefits that are
determined to be due under this act and under division rules and
regulations.
(c) Repealed By Laws 1998, ch. 81, § 3.

1-40-105. Repealed By Laws 1998, ch. 81, § 3.
1-40-106. Eligibility for compensation.
(a) The victim or his dependent is entitled to compensation
under this act if:
(i) The victim suffered personal injury as a result of
a criminal act;
(ii) Repealed by Laws 1989, ch. 233, § 2.
(iii) The injury to or death of the victim was not
attributable to his own wrongful act;
(iv) The appropriate law enforcement authorities were
notified of the criminal act allegedly causing the injury to or
death of the victim as soon as practical under the circumstance
after perpetration of the offense and the claimant cooperates
with appropriate law enforcement authorities with respect to the
crime for which compensation is sought;
(v) The application for compensation is filed with the
division within one (1) year after the date of the injury to or
death of the victim, or within any extension of time the
division allows for good cause shown; and
(vi) The owner of real estate has paid all claims for
reimbursement pursuant to W.S. 35-9-158(a)(ii).
(b) No victim or dependent shall be denied compensation
solely because:
(i) He is a relative of the offender or was living
with the offender as a family or household member at the time of
the injury or death. However, the division may award
compensation to a victim or dependent who is a relative, family
or household member of the offender only if the division can
reasonably determine the offender will receive no economic
benefit or unjust enrichment from the compensation;

(ii) He is not a resident of the state.
(c) Any person who perpetrates any criminal act on the
person of another or who is convicted of a felony after applying
to the division for compensation is not eligible or entitled to
receive compensation under this act.

1-40-107. Application for compensation; required
information.
(a) The application for compensation shall be on a form
furnished by the division, setting forth:
(i) The victim's name and address;
(ii) If the victim is deceased, the claimant's name
and address and his relationship to the victim, the names and
addresses of the victim's dependents and the extent to which
each is dependent;
(iii) The date and nature of the criminal act on which
claim for compensation is based;
(iv) The date and place where and the law enforcement
officials to whom notification of the criminal act was given;
(v) The nature and extent of the injuries the victim
sustained and the names and addresses of those giving medical
and hospitalization treatment to the victim;
(vi) The economic loss to the applicant and to all
other persons as specified under paragraph (a)(ii) of this
section resulting from the injury or death;
(vii) The amount and source of benefits, payments or
awards, if any, payable to the applicant and dependents;
(viii) Releases authorizing the surrender to the
division of all reports, medical records and other information
relating to the claim and crime; and
(ix) Any other information the division reasonably
requires.
(b) The division may require that materials substantiating
the facts stated in the application be submitted with the
application. If the division finds that an application does not

contain the required information or that the facts stated
therein have not been substantiated, it shall notify the
applicant in writing of the specific additional items or
information or materials required and that the applicant has
thirty (30) days from the date of the notice in which to furnish
those items to the division. The division shall reject the
application of an applicant who although notified fails to file
the requested information or substantiating materials within the
time specified unless he requests, and the division grants, an
extension of time in which to furnish that information.
(c) An applicant may file an amended application or
additional substantiating materials to correct inadvertent
errors or omissions at any time before the division disposes of
the original application. In either case, the filing of
additional information or of an amended application shall be
considered to have been filed at the same time as the original
application.
(d) Information contained in the claim files and records of
victims, which are subject to any privilege of confidentiality
under Wyoming law, shall remain confidential and shall not be
open to public inspection. The information shall be immune from
legal process and shall not, without the consent of the person
furnishing the information, be admitted as evidence or used for
any purpose in any action, suit or other judicial, legislative
or administrative proceeding.

1-40-108. Hearing; findings; order.
(a) Hearings shall be held on the application and are open
to the public unless the division determines that a closed
hearing is necessary because:
(i) The alleged assailant or offender has not been
brought to trial and a public hearing would adversely affect
either his apprehension or his trial;
(ii) The victim or alleged assailant is a minor;
(iii) An open hearing would cause trauma for the
victim;
(iv) A public hearing would frustrate rather than
further the interest of justice.

(b) A record shall be kept of the proceedings of hearings
held before the division and shall include the division's
findings of fact and conclusions of the amount of compensation,
if any, to which the applicant and persons dependent on a
deceased victim are entitled. No part of the record of any
hearing before the division may be used for any purpose in a
criminal proceeding except in the prosecution of a person
alleged to have perjured himself in his testimony before the
division.
(c) At the conclusion of the hearing, the division shall
enter an order stating:
(i) Its findings of fact;
(ii) Its decision as to whether or not compensation is
due under this act and the amount of compensation due, if any;
(iii) Whether disbursement of the compensation awarded
is to be made in a lump sum or in periodic payments; and
(iv) The person or persons to whom the compensation
should be paid.
(d) If the division finds, in the case of an application
made by a person dependent for his support on a deceased victim,
that persons other than the applicant were also dependent on
that victim for their support, it shall also:
(i) Name those persons in its order;
(ii) State the percentage share of the total
compensation award and the dollar amount to which each is
entitled; and
(iii) Order that those amounts be paid to those
persons directly or, in the case of a minor or incompetent, to
his guardian or conservator, as the case may be.
(e) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, the
division may promulgate rules providing for an expedited claims
process for applications in which eligibility is clear and all
information has been verified.

1-40-109. Standards for compensation.

(a) For the purpose of determining the amount of
compensation payable pursuant to this act, the division, insofar
as practicable, shall formulate standards for uniform
application of this act and shall take into consideration rates
and amounts of compensation payable for injuries and death under
other laws of this state and of the United States and the
availability of funds under this act.
(b) Loss of earnings and loss of future earnings shall be
determined on the basis of the victim's average monthly earnings
for the six (6) months immediately preceding the date of the
injury, or the current federal minimum wage, whichever is less.
(c) Loss of support shall be determined on the basis of the
victim's or defendant's average monthly earnings for the six (6)
months immediately preceding the date of the injury, or the
current federal minimum wage, whichever is less.
(d) Except as provided in subsection (e) of this section,
the maximum individual award of compensation paid to any victim
or dependent shall not exceed fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00). Compensation shall only be awarded for economic
losses occurring within a twenty-four (24) month period from the
date of the injury or discovery of the crime. However, the
division may extend the twenty-four (24) month period to allow
compensation for mental health counseling and care occurring
within an additional twelve (12) month period for a total of
thirty-six (36) months.
(e) In addition to the maximum award authorized in
subsection (d) of this section, in the case of catastrophic
injury the division may award an additional amount not to exceed
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) to the victim to cover future
lost wages, special medical needs and any other special
assistance needed as a result of the injury. The additional
award may be made only for economic losses occurring within
twenty-four (24) months after the date of the injury or
discovery of the crime.

1-40-110. Compensation award.
(a) If a person is injured or killed by a criminal act, the
division may order the payment of compensation in accordance
with this act for:
(i) Expenses actually and reasonably incurred as a
result of the personal injury or death of the victim, by the

victim, his dependent, or any person responsible for the
victim's maintenance;
(ii) Loss of earning power as a result of the victim's
total or partial incapacity;
(iii) Economic loss to the deceased victim's
dependents; and
(iv) Any other loss resulting from the personal injury
or death of the victim which the division determines to be
reasonable.
(b) In determining whether to award compensation under this
act, the division shall consider:
(i) All circumstances surrounding the victim's conduct
determined to be relevant which directly contributed to the
victim's injury or death;
(ii) Need for financial aid; and
(iii) Any other relevant matters.
(c) The division shall not consider whether the alleged
assailant has been apprehended, prosecuted or convicted, nor the
result of any criminal proceedings against him.
(d) The crime victims compensation account is not a state
health program and is not intended to be used as a primary payor
to other health care assistance programs, but is a public,
quasi-charitable fund whose fundamental purpose is to assist
victims of violent crimes through a period of financial hardship
as a payor of last resort. Payment made in accordance with this
section shall be considered payment of last resort that follows
all other sources and is provided subsequent to all other
benefits. Accordingly, in determining the amount of compensation
to be allowed by order, the division shall consider amounts
received or receivable from any other source or sources by the
victim or his dependents as a result of the incident or offense
giving rise to the application. The division shall not deny
compensation solely because the applicant is entitled to income
from a collateral source.

1-40-111. Emergency awards; limitation.

(a) The division may grant an emergency award prior to the
holding of a hearing, if upon application of a person eligible
for compensation, the division determines undue hardship will
result to the applicant if immediate payment is not made.
(b) The amount of the emergency award shall be dependent on
the applicant's immediate and verifiable needs as a result of
loss of income or support, for emergency medical treatment, or
for funeral and burial expenses. The amount of an emergency
award to an applicant shall not exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
(c) Any emergency award granted under this section shall be
deducted from the final compensation award made to the
applicant. The excess of the amount of any emergency award over
the amount of the final award, or the full amount of the
emergency award if no final award is made shall be repaid to the
division by the applicant.

1-40-112. Recovery from offender; restitution.
(a) If an order for the payment of compensation for
personal injury or death is made under this act, the state, upon
payment of the amount of the order, shall be subrogated to any
right of action the victim or dependent of the victim has
against the person or persons responsible for the injury or
death, and the state may bring an action against the responsible
person for the amount of the damages the applicant sustained.
(b) The applicant or other recipient shall give written
notice to the division of the making of a claim or demand or the
filing of a suit for the damages specified in subsection (a) of
this section.
(c) Restitution by an offender under W.S. 7-9-101 through
7-9-115 shall:
(i) To the extent compensation is paid under this act,
be paid to the division, deposited in the account and be set off
against a judgment in favor of the state in a civil action
arising out of the same facts or event;
(ii) Reduce by like amount any compensation
subsequently paid under this act arising out of the same facts
or event.
(d) Repealed By Laws 1997, ch. 152, § 2.

(e) Repealed By Laws 1997, ch. 152, § 2.
(f) Repealed By Laws 1997, ch. 152, § 2.
(g) Any payment of benefits to, or on behalf of, a victim
or other claimant under this act creates a debt due and owing to
the state by any person found, in a criminal court proceeding in
which he is a party, to have committed the criminal act. Payment
of the debt shall be a condition of probation or parole:
(i) In making payment of the debt a condition of
probation or parole, the court or state board of parole shall
set the schedule or amounts of payments, subject to modification
based on change of circumstances;
(ii) If the court or board does not order payment of
the debt, or orders only partial payment, it shall state on the
record the reasons therefor.

1-40-113. Waivers and releases void; exemption from
creditors' claims.
Any agreement by an individual to waive, release or commute his
rights under this act is void. Compensation due under this act
may not be assigned, pledged, encumbered, released or commuted.
Compensation under this act is exempt from all claims of
creditors and from levy, execution and attachment or other
remedy for recovery or collection of a debt, except that
compensation for an allowable expense is not exempt from a claim
of a creditor to the extent that creditor provided products,
services or accommodations, the costs of which are included in
the compensation award.

1-40-114. Crime victims' compensation account.
(a) There is established an account to be known as the
crime victims' compensation account. The account is under the
administration and control of the division for purposes of
providing compensation or other benefits to crime victims and
for purposes of implementing this act. The account shall consist
of all monies the division receives or collects from any source
and all monies shall be paid to the state treasurer for deposit
in the account. The division may accept, and shall deposit to
the account, any gifts, contributions, donations, grants or
federal funds specifically given to the division for the benefit
of victims of crime.

(b) The monies within the account may be withdrawn
therefrom by vouchers signed by the director of the division or
his designee. The division shall keep detailed permanent records
of all monies credited to the account and all expenditures and
disbursements from the account.

1-40-115. Informing victims of program and
application procedure.
Each law enforcement and prosecuting agency, and any victim
witness program or family violence advocate funded in whole or
in part with state or federal funds, shall exercise reasonable
care to insure that victims of crimes are informed of the
existence of the state program of compensation for death or
injuries sustained by victims of crime and the procedure for
applying for compensation under this act.

1-40-116. Fees not chargeable.
No fee shall be charged to the applicant in any proceeding under
this act except as provided by this act. If the applicant is
represented by counsel in making application under this act or
in any further proceedings provided for in this chapter, the
counsel shall not receive payment for his services except an
amount as the division determines to be reasonable.

1-40-117. Falsifying, destroying or concealment of
division records; furnishing false information or failing
to disclose; other violations.
(a) Any agent or employee of the division who knowingly
makes a false entry or falsely alters any division record, or
who intentionally destroys, mutilates, conceals, removes or
otherwise impairs the verity or availability of any division
record with the knowledge of a lack of authority to do so, or
who possesses a division record and refuses to deliver up that
record upon proper request of a person lawfully entitled to
receive it is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(b) Any violation of this chapter for which a penalty is
not otherwise provided is a misdemeanor.

1-40-118. Distribution of monies to crime victim
service and victim assistance providers.

(a) In addition to any other powers specified in this act
the division shall oversee the distribution of federal and state
funds under its control, to eligible crime victim service
providers, including funds received under the federal Victims of
Crime Act of 1984.
(b) For purposes of this section "crime victim service
provider" means any program operated by a public agency or
nonprofit organization or any combination thereof which provides
comprehensive services to victims of crime, including but not
limited to:
(i) Crisis intervention services;
(ii) Informing victims and witnesses of the case
status and progress;
(iii) Assistance in participating in criminal justice
proceedings;
(iv) Performing advocate duties for crime victims;
(v) Assisting victims in recovering property damaged
or stolen and in obtaining restitution or compensation for
medical and other expenses incurred as a result of crime;
(vi) Developing community resources to assist victims
of crime;
(vii) Assisting victims of crime in the preparation
and presentation of claims under the Crime Victims Compensation
Act.
(c) In establishing priorities the division shall follow
requirements regarding prioritization that are established by
the funding authority.
(d) The division shall by rule establish a method for
distributing monies to crime victim service providers. The
division's rules and regulations shall reflect the following
factors in determining the distribution formula: population,
needs assessment, regional cost differences and any requirements
promulgated by the granting source.
(i) Repealed By Laws 1998, ch. 81, § 3.
(ii) Repealed By Laws 1998, ch. 81, § 3.

(iii) Repealed By Laws 1998, ch. 81, § 3.
(e) In determining whether a victim service provider is
eligible to receive grants under subsection (d) of this section,
the primary consideration shall be whether the eligibility
requirements of the granting source are met, including the
provider's agreement to submit an annual unduplicated count of
the number of victims it served in accordance with rules and
regulations promulgated by the division.
(i) Repealed By Laws 1998, ch. 81, § 3.
(ii) Repealed By Laws 1998, ch. 81, § 3.
(f) Funds distributed under this section shall supplement,
not supplant, existing victim or witness programs throughout the
state.
(g) To the extent the legislature provides funding for
victim assistance providers that serve victims of all crimes,
the division of victim services shall:
(i) Distribute the state funding provided for victim
assistance providers as follows:
(A) No less than two percent (2%) of the total
amount of state funding shall be distributed to each county and
the Wind River Indian Reservation for victim assistance
providers within the county or within the Wind River Indian
Reservation that meet the requirements established by the
division of victim services;
(B) Of the remaining state funding under this
subsection, amounts shall be distributed to the victim
assistance providers within the counties and the Wind River
Indian Reservation on a proportional basis according to each
county's and the reservation's population. For purposes of the
distribution under this subparagraph, the population residing on
the Wind River Indian Reservation shall be determined separate
from the balance of the population of Fremont county;
(C) If funds have been returned to the division
pursuant to unfulfilled contracts under this subsection at the
end of the fiscal year, prior to reversion pursuant to W.S. 9-21008, 9-2-1012(e) and 9-4-207(a), a law enforcement agency that
has carried out a clandestine laboratory operation remediation

may apply for compensation under this subsection for any
remediation expenses not otherwise collected pursuant to W.S.
35-9-158(a). The maximum amount payable pursuant to this
subsection to a law enforcement agency that has carried out a
clandestine laboratory operation remediation shall be the amount
set forth in the court approved expense report as provided under
W.S. 35-9-158(a) minus amounts collected from other sources
pursuant to W.S. 35-9-158(a).
(ii) Require victim assistance providers to:
(A) Provide the services specified under
subsection (a) of this section;
(B) Advocate to ensure victims are allowed to
exercise their rights under the victims bill of rights
established in W.S. 1-40-203;
(C) Submit their long-term strategic plans to the
division of victim services for approval.
(iii) Establish minimum program standards and uniform
reporting procedures for victim assistance providers that
receive state funding under this subsection through rules and
regulations adopted in accordance with W.S. 9-1-638(a)(vii).

1-40-119. Surcharge to be assessed in certain
criminal cases; paid to account.
(a) In addition to any fine or other penalty prescribed by
law, a defendant who pleads guilty or nolo contendere to, or is
convicted of, the following criminal offenses shall be assessed
a surcharge of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the offenses
specified in paragraph (v) of this subsection, not less than one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more than three hundred
fifty dollars ($350.00) for the first plea to or conviction of
offenses specified in paragraphs (i) through (iv) of this
subsection, and not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor
more than four hundred dollars ($400.00) for each subsequent
plea to or conviction of offenses specified in paragraphs (i)
through (iv) of this subsection:
(i) Any crime enumerated in W.S. 6-1-101 through 6-10203;

(ii) Any violation of W.S. 31-5-225, 31-5-229, 31-5233 or 41-13-220(a);
(iii) Any violation of W.S. 35-7-1001 through 35-71057;
(iv) Any violation of W.S. 6-2-314 through 6-2-318;
(v) Any violation of a municipal ordinance which has
substantially similar elements to the criminal offenses
specified in paragraphs (ii) through (iv) of this subsection or
any other violation of a municipal ordinance which causes actual
damage to persons or property.
(b) The surcharge enumerated in subsection (a) of this
section shall be imposed upon any defendant for whom
prosecution, trial or sentence is deferred under W.S. 7-13-301
and 7-13-302 or who participates in any other diversion
agreement.
(c) Under no circumstances shall a court fail to impose the
surcharge required by subsections (a) and (b) of this section if
the court determines the defendant has an ability to pay or that
a reasonable probability exists that the defendant will have an
ability to pay.
(d) The surcharge shall be paid within ten (10) days of
imposition unless the court determines that it shall be paid in
installments over a reasonable period of time. Failure to comply
with the provisions for payment of the surcharge is punishable
as contempt of court. Contempt proceedings or other proceedings
to collect the surcharge may be initiated by the prosecuting
attorney, by the court on its own motion or by the division.
(e) Monies paid to the court by a defendant shall be
applied to the surcharge before being applied to any fine,
penalty, cost or assessment imposed upon the defendant. The
proceeds from the surcharge imposed by this section shall be
remitted promptly by the clerk of the court to the division for
deposit in the account.

