Colorado | State Support | Office for Victims of Crime Skip to main content Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Colorado © Puwadol Jaturawutthichai / Shutterstock.com ( see reuse policy ). Description Access state-specific information, including events, and state VOCA formula funding program contacts. State VOCA-Funded Victim Assistance and Compensation Programs OVC administers two Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) formula grant programs that support crime victim compensation and assistance—the cornerstone of support for victims throughout the Nation. VOCA Victim Assistance formula grants support thousands of victim assistance programs throughout the Nation each year. States provide subgrants to local community-based organizations and public agencies that provide services directly to victims. Funds may also be used to address emerging needs, gaps in services, and training of victim service advocates. VOCA-Funded Victim Assistance Program Colorado Division of Criminal Justice Department of Public Safety Office for Victims Programs Phone: 303-239-5719 Website: https://dcj.colorado.gov/dcj-offices/ovp/hmpage VOCA Victim Compensation formula grants provide funding to supplement state compensation programs that provide financial assistance and reimbursement to victims for crime-related out-of-pocket expenses. VOCA-Funded Victim Compensation Program Colorado Division of Criminal Justice Department of Public Safety Office for Victims Programs Phone: 303-239-5719 Website: https://dcj.colorado.gov/dcj-offices/ovp/crime-victim-compensation VOCA Performance Report Data Dashboards State performance report data for the Colorado Victim Assistance and Compensation Programs, along with data from other states, are available in the data dashboards listed below. FYs 2021–2024 VOCA Victim Compensation Data Dashboard FYs 2021–2024 VOCA Victim Assistance Data Dashboard Find more information about performance measures for Victim Assistance and Victim Compensation Programs. Find and register for events in your state. Review state allocations for VOCA formula funding. Coordinate a training through OVC TTAC.