Colorado Revised Statutes Section 18-3-407.7 (2025) - Sexual assault victim emergency payment program - creation - eligibility :: 2025 Colorado Revised Statutes :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Colorado Rev. Stat. (here) 2024 Colorado Rev. Stat. 2023 Colorado Rev. Stat. View All Versions 2025 Colorado Revised Statutes Title 18 - Criminal Code (Arts. 1 - 26) Article 3 - Offenses Against the Person (Pts. 1 - 6) Part 4 - Unlawful Sexual Behavior (§§ 18-3-401 - 18-3-418) § 18-3-407.7. Sexual assault victim emergency payment program - creation - eligibility Universal Citation: CO Rev Stat § 18-3-407.7 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next (1) There is hereby created the sexual assault victim emergency payment program, referred to in this section as the “program”, in the division of criminal justice in the department of public safety. The purpose of the program is to assist victims of sexual assault with medical expenses associated with a sexual assault that are not otherwise covered pursuant to section 18-3-407.5 or any other victim compensation program. (2) (a) A victim must request and receive a medical forensic examination to be eligible to have medical costs and fees covered through the program. The division of criminal justice shall develop a policy for administering the program. The policy must include a requirement to establish a cap for the amount payable per victim based on actual and reasonable costs and available funds, but the minimum cap must not be less than one thousand dollars. The program must cover medical fees and costs associated with obtaining the medical forensic examination, including but not limited to emergency department fees and costs, laboratory fees, prescription medication, and physician’s fees, as long as funds are available. The program may also cover medical fees and costs for injuries directly related to the sexual assault. The program may also pay for any uncovered direct costs of the medical forensic examination. The total amount paid for all expenses must not exceed the annual cap established by the division of criminal justice. (a.5) A law enforcement agency may request reimbursement to have costs associated with the collection of forensic evidence for a victim covered through the program. The division of criminal justice shall develop a policy, including a requirement to establish an annual cap, for the amount payable to a law enforcement agency based on actual and reasonable costs and available funds. (b) The program shall be the payer of last resort. (c) A hospital shall limit the amounts charged for emergency or associated fees and costs eligible for payment pursuant to paragraph (a) of this subsection (2) to not more than the lowest negotiated rate from a private health plan. (3) The division of criminal justice may waive any requirement set forth in this section for good cause shown or in the interests of justice, if it is so required. (4) By December 31, 2024, the division of criminal justice shall develop and maintain a system that allows the division to track claims, process invoices, sort information, and produce reports concerning, at a minimum: (a) The number of medical forensic examinations paid for by the program; (b) The total cost of services compensated related to medical forensic examinations paid for by the program; (c) Information concerning the status of claims in the system, including the number of claims paid, the number of claims denied and reasons for denial, the number of claims pending approval or denial, and the average time between reimbursement claim submission and approval or denial by the program; (d) The names and locations of medical facilities that submitted claims for reimbursement from the program; and (e) Demographic information of victims whose claims are reimbursed and denied through the program, if available. (5) (a) On or before January 30, 2026, and on or before January 30 of each year thereafter, the division shall submit a report to the judiciary committees of the house of representatives and the senate, or any successor committees, with the information described in subsection (4) of this section from the preceding calendar year. (b) The department shall ensure the report does not disclose any information in violation of applicable state and federal laws regarding the confidentiality of an individual’s information. (c) Notwithstanding the requirement in section 24-1-136 (11)(a)(I), the requirement to submit the report required in this subsection (5) continues indefinitely. History Source: L. 2013: Entire section added,(HB 13-1163), ch. 215, p. 895, § 3, effective May 13. L. 2023:(1) and (2)(a) amended and (2)(a.5), (4), and (5) added,(HB 23-1199), ch. 263, p. 1566, § 3, effective May 25. Annotations Research References & Practice Aids Hierarchy Notes: C.R.S. Title 18 C.R.S. Title 18, Art. 3 C.R.S. Title 18, Art. 3, Pt. 4 Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Colorado may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Sam Bernstein Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 883-9584 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Traffic Tickets, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Timothy Doman PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Appeals & Appellate Website Email Call Email Profile William McCririe PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Domestic Violence, Juvenile Law Website Email Call Email Profile Megan  Smith PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI Website Email Call Email Profile Sara MacGregor PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Appeals & Appellate, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Peter Samouris PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Appeals & Appellate, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Jonathan Jones Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (248) 310-3399 Romulus, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, Traffic Tickets Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new Colorado Supreme Court - Criminal Law opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions