Colorado Revised Statutes Section 24-4.1-107.5 (2025) - Confidentiality of materials - definitions :: 2025 Colorado Revised Statutes :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Other Versions of The
                            Colorado Rev. Stat. 2025 Colorado Rev. Stat. (here) 2024 Colorado Rev. Stat. 2023 Colorado Rev. Stat. View All Versions 2025 Colorado Revised Statutes Title 24 - Government - State (§§ 24-1-101 - 24-117-113) Administration (Arts. 1 - 19.9) Article 4.1 - Crime Victim Compensation and Victim and Witness Rights (Pts. 1 - 5) Part 1 - Crime Victim Compensation Act (§§ 24-4.1-100.1 - 24-4.1-124) § 24-4.1-107.5. Confidentiality of materials - definitions Universal Citation: CO Rev Stat § 24-4.1-107.5 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next (1) For purposes of this section, unless the context otherwise requires: (a) “In camera review” means the judge views the material in private, without either party present. (b) “Materials” means any records, claims, writings, documents, or information. (2) Any materials received, made, or kept by a board or a district attorney to process a claim on behalf of a crime victim under this article are confidential. The district attorney shall have standing in any action to oppose the disclosure of any such materials. A board shall not provide through discovery in any civil or criminal action any exhibits, medical records, psychological records, counseling records, work records, criminal investigation records, criminal court case records, witness statements, telephone records, and other records of any type or nature whatsoever gathered for the purpose of evaluating whether to compensate a victim except: (a) In the event of the review by the court of an order or decision of the board pursuant to section 24-4.1-106, and then only to the extent narrowly and necessary to obtain court review; or (b) Upon a strict showing to the court in a separate civil or a criminal action that particular information or documents are known to exist only in board records. The court may inspect in camera such records to determine whether the specific requested information exists. If the court determines that the specific information sought exists in the board’s records, the documents may then be released only by court order if the court finds as part of its order that the documents will not pose any threat to the safety or welfare of the victim or any other person whose identity may appear in the board’s records, or violate any other privilege or confidentiality right. (3) In a proceeding for determining the amount of restitution, if the defendant’s request is not speculative and is based on an evidentiary hypothesis that warrants an in camera review to rebut the presumption established in section 18-1.3-603, C. R. S., the court may release additional information contained in the records of the board only after an in camera review and additionally finding that the information: (a) Is necessary for the defendant to dispute the amount claimed for restitution; and (b) Will not pose any threat to the safety or welfare of the victim, or any other person whose identity may appear in the board’s records, or violate any other privilege or confidentiality right. History Source: L. 2000: Entire section added, p. 242, § 7, effective March 29. L. 2015: Entire section amended,(HB 15-1035), ch. 60, p. 144, § 2, effective March 30. Annotations Research References & Practice Aids Hierarchy Notes: C.R.S. Title 24 C.R.S. Title 24, Art. 4.1 State Notes ANNOTATION Because an in camera review of confidential or privileged records is only required when disclosure is “necessary” to resolve a pending issue, court did not err in denying defendant’s request for in camera review of victim’s mental health record. Defendant must show that his or her request is not speculative and that an evidentiary hypothesis would disprove all or part of the prosecution’s restitution request on the basis that the requested amounts were not proximately caused by defendant’s conduct. People v. Rivera, 250 P.3d 1272 (Colo. App. 2010). Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Colorado may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Toggle button Get free summaries of new Colorado Supreme Court opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions