How to Enroll in the ACP | DCS Skip to main content 0 How to Enroll in the ACP Application Center Locations To begin the enrollment process, meet with a certified Application Assistant. Visit the Application Center Locations page to view a listing of available Application Assistants. Application Center Locations Centers with Services in Spanish Eligibility Requirements The applicant must be a survivor of sexual assault, domestic violence or stalking/harassment OR a protected healthcare worker or patient who fears for their safety. Protected healthcare workers include reproductive and gender-affirming healthcare workers and patients. Co-applicants can be listed on the application if they reside with an eligible applicant. Co-applicants can be children or adults. All adults must understand and agree to terms of enrollment before signing the application. The applicant must provide documentation to support their eligibility. Examples of evidence include: police reports, orders of protection, documentation from domestic violence and sexual assault services, verification of a protected healthcare worker's status, or letters written by a professional who has provided counseling, medical services, religious support, referrals, or other direct services to the applicant. The applicant must have relocated within the past 90 days or be planning to relocate. Applicants must reside in Colorado. Enrollment Process Meet with an Application Assistant (AA). AAs are individuals who provide counseling, referrals, and other direct services to survivors of violence or are protected healthcare workers. AAs are trained and certified by the ACP. At the bottom of this page is a link to the Application Center Locations listing of certified Application Assistants. You and the AA will discuss your eligibility for the ACP and assess whether the program is a good fit for your circumstances. AAs are not employees of the ACP and may have agency service limitations. Only AAs can make ACP referrals and submit ACP applications. If you are a protected healthcare worker (as defined in §12-30-121 (1)(d) C.R.S ) seeking ACP enrollment, contact ACP staff directly at acp@state.co.us for support. Not all agencies can provide enrollment support for protected healthcare workers, but ACP staff can provide options. Please also note that protected healthcare workers can themselves become certified Application Assistants to support their peers enroll into the program. Please reach out for training details. If you and the AA determine that the ACP should become part of your overall safety plan, you and the AA will complete and sign the ACP Application Form. Individuals who reside in the same location as the Primary Applicant can enroll as a co-applicant and should be listed on the Application Form. Anyone listed as a co-applicant who is 18 or older must be present at the meeting to sign the Application Form. Children can enroll with the permission of their legal guardian. The AA submits your application to the ACP. If you do not hear back within 2 weeks after your application was submitted, reach out to the ACP. The ACP assigns your household a substitute address and mails you a "Welcome Folder" which contains program information, guidance, and forms. Your certification in the program is valid for 4 years from your enrollment date. You will be contacted by ACP staff prior to that date regarding renewal for another 4 years. You may voluntarily withdraw from the program at any time. Confidential Address Programs Outside of Colorado Confidential Address Programs (sometimes called Safe at Home programs) are available in many other states . Eligibility requirements and services provided may vary from state to state. General ACP Contact Information Address: 1001 E. 62nd Ave., Denver, CO 80216 Phone: 303-866-2208 or 1-888-341-0002 Fax: 303-866-3946 TTY: 1-800-659-2656 Email: acp@state.co.us Note: The ACP is located in a secure State facility with no public access.