VICTIM COMPENSATION APPLICATION
STATE OF COLORADO
The Victim Compensation program operates pursuant to C.R.S. §24-4.1-101 et seq.
Eligibility Requirements:
1. The crime must be one in which the victim sustains mental or bodily injury, dies, or suffers property
damage to locks, windows or doors to residential property as a result of a compensable crime.
2. The victim must cooperate with law enforcement officials (e.g. district attorney, police, sheriff).
3. The law enforcement agency was notified within 72 hours after the crime occurred.
4. The injury or death of the victim was not the result of the victim’s own wrongdoing or substantial
provocation.
5. The victimization occurred on or after July 1, 1982.
6. The application for compensation must be submitted within one year from the date of the crime; six
months for residential property damage claims.
NOTE: The Victim Compensation Board MAY waive some of these requirements for good
cause or in the interest of justice.
General Information:
1. There does not have to be an arrest made for a victim to be eligible for compensation.
2. Compensation may be made for medical expenses, mental health counseling, dentures, eyeglasses,
hearing aids, or other prosthetic or medical devices, loss of earnings, outpatient care, homemaker or
home health services, funeral expenses, and loss of support to dependents.
3. Compensation for property damage may be awarded for the cost of replacement or repair to exterior
doors, locks or windows that are damaged during the commission of a crime.
4. By law, you must apply for all other available sources of financial assistance or reimbursement,
including private insurance, Medicaid and Medicare.
5. Please attach all bills and receipts. You may apply even if you have not received any bills as of this
date.
6. Your claim will be investigated and presented to the Victim Compensation Board. This process may
take up to 60 days.
7. Total recovery may not exceed the statutory limit of $30,000. Compensation for some categories is
limited by Board policy. Some jurisdictions do not pay up to the statutory limit of $30,000.
8. Should your claim be denied, you have a right to request reconsideration of the Board’s decision and
have the right to submit new or additional information related to the reason(s) for the Board’s denial or
reduction of your claim. You may arrange for reconsideration by contacting the Victim Compensation
program within 30 days from the date on which you receive notice of the denial or reduction of your
claim. If you request reconsideration of the Board’s decision, further information concerning the
reconsideration process will be mailed to you. In the event the denial is upheld by the Board, you have
a right to have the Board’s decision reviewed in accordance with the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure
within 30 days.

Please complete every question. Write N/A if the question is not applicable.

SECTION 1 - VICTIM INFORMATION (PLEASE TYPE OR PRINT)

Victim’s Name (First, Middle, Last)
Mailing Address

City/State/Zip

Home Telephone

Work Telephone

Date of Birth

Age when crime occurred

Sex:

 Male

 Female

State of Residency
The following information is used for statistical purposes only. It is needed to comply with federal
regulations.
Who Referred You to the Victim
Compensation Program?
Handicapped:
Race:
 American Indian or Alaska Native
Yes Physical
 Victim Advocate
 Asian

No Mental

 Black or African American
 Hispanic or Latino
 Native Hawaiian or Other
Pacific Islander

 White Non-Latino or Caucasian
 Some Other Race
 Multiple Races

 Police Officer
 District Attorney’s Office
 Social Services
 Hospital
 Therapist
 Other: _______________

SECTION 2 - CLAIMANT INFORMATION (Complete only if person submitting application is not the
victim, i.e.: victim’s parent or guardian, or relative of victim).

Claimant’s Name
Mailing Address

City/State/Zip

Home Telephone

Work Telephone

Relationship to Victim

SECTION 3 - CRIME INFORMATION (All applicants must complete this section)
Type of Crime:

 Domestic Violence
 Assault
 Burglary/Criminal Mischief
 Sexual Assault – Adult
 Murder/Homicide

 Drunk Driver/Vehicular Assault/Homicide
 Child Physical Abuse
 Child Sexual Assault by Family Member
 Child Sexual Assault - Non Family Member
 Other _________________________________

Date of Crime:

Police Dept./Agency Crime Was Reported To:

Crime Report Number:

Law Enforcement Officer Handling Case:

Who Committed the Crime?

Suspect’s Relationship to Victim:

Did the Crime Occur at Work? Yes No

County Where Crime Occurred:

INCLUDE COPIES OF ITEMIZED BILLS WITH THIS APPLICATION. PLEASE FORWARD
ADDITIONAL CRIME RELATED BILLS AS YOU RECEIVE THEM.

SECTION 4 – BENEFITS Please check each type of claim for which you are requesting funds, and provide the
information requested within the block or mark the type of claim as not applicable (N/A).

MEDICAL SERVICES: Submit copies of itemized medical bills, if available.
Hospital: yes no
Physician: yes no
Dental: yes no
Physical Therapy: yes
Other:
Home Nursing Care: yes no

Chiropractic: yes

no

no

PERSONAL MEDICAL ITEMS: Submit copies of itemized bills, if available.
(Limited to medically necessary devices damaged or destroyed during the crime.)
Eyeglasses/Contact Lenses: yes no
Hearing Aid: yes no Prosthetic Device:

Dentures: yes no
yes no Other:

COUNSELING: Submit copies of itemized bills, if available. If already in therapy, please
provide the following:
Therapist’s Name:
Mailing Address:

Telephone No.

SECTION 4 - BENEFITS (continued):
LOST WAGES: Was the victim able to use any of the following types of leave due to
physical or emotional injury caused by the crime?
Sick Leave:

yes no

Vacation Leave: yes

no

Personal Leave:

yes no

FUNERAL EXPENSES: Submit copies of itemized bills, if available.
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY: Submit copies of itemized bills, if available.
(Reimbursement for exterior residential doors, locks and
windows damaged or destroyed during the crime.)
Doors:

yes no

Locks:

yes no

Windows:

yes no

Residential insurance deductible amount: $
LOST SUPPORT TO DEPENDENTS (Contact your local district for additional information
on this benefit.)
EMERGENCY AWARDS: The Victim Compensation fund MAY assist victims if they are
determined to require emergency assistance as a direct result of the crime. By policy, some
jurisdictions do not allow emergency awards. Contact your local district to see if emergency
awards are available and for additional information on this benefit.

SECTION 5 - INSURANCE INFORMATION
All applicants seeking compensation for medical bills must complete the following information on
insurance and other sources available to pay medical bills.
SOURCE:
YES NO
UNK Name of Insurance Company/Policy No./Phone No.
Private
Insurance
Medicaid
Group
Insurance
Medicare
Worker’s
Comp.
Disability Ins.
Automobile Ins.
Homeowner’s/
Renter’s Ins.
Military
Coverage
Other

SECTION 6 – CIVIL LAWSUIT
Are you planning to sue the person(s) or business/agency responsible for this injury?
If yes, please provide the following:

yes

no

Your Civil Attorney’s Name:
Mailing Address

City/State/Zip

Telephone No.
NOTE: The Crime Victim Compensation Board must be notified of any civil action and be provided with
written evidence of the amount and terms of settlement.

SECTION 7 - RELEASE OF INFORMATION AND VICTIM’S RIGHTS AND
RESPONSIBILITIES
Certification of Application: The information contained in this application for a Crime Victim Compensation award is
true and correct to the best of my knowledge. I understand that the filing of false information may result in a denial of my
claim and is punishable by law.
Cooperation: I understand that my failure to cooperate with law enforcement (police, sheriff, prosecutor, etc.) may result
in the denial of my claim.
Alternative Application Process: If you feel the Victim Compensation Board in your judicial district is unable to fairly
review your claim due to a personal or professional relationship with two or more board members, it will be sent to another
district for review. If your claim is approved, bills will be paid from this office. I understand that this may delay the
processing of my claim.
Repayment of Crime Victim Compensation Award: I understand that the Crime Victim Compensation program will be
repaid if payments are received from the offender (restitution or civil action), insurance, or any other government or
private agency as compensation for this injury or death after receipt of payment from the Victim Compensation Fund.
Subrogation Agreement: I understand that the acceptance of a Victim Compensation Award by an applicant shall
subrogate the state to the extent of such award to any cause or right of action accruing to the applicant.
Release of Information Authorization: I hereby authorize the release of all information from my employer, physician,
hospital, Department of Human Services, medical and/or mental health service provider(s) and/or creditor(s) for the
purposes of verifying the claims I have submitted, or to establish the validity of a restitution claim. I further understand
that any information provided may be subject to disclosure under the law.
Release of Funds: I hereby authorize release of funds awarded to me under the Colorado Crime Victim Compensation Act
to be paid directly to the service provider(s) applicable to my claim. I understand that any award is subject to the
availability of funds and the discretion of the Board.
Right to Reconsideration: As an applicant, you are advised that if your Crime Victim Compensation claim is denied you
have the right to request a reconsideration hearing before the Crime Victim Compensation Board. You will be entitled to
present evidence and witnesses. At said hearing, the burden of proof is upon you as the applicant to show that the claim is
reasonable and compensable under the terms of the Colorado Crime Victim Compensation Act. In the event the denial is
upheld by the Board at the reconsideration hearing, the applicant has the ability to have the Board’s decision reviewed in
accordance with the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure within 30 days.

Printed Name
Date

Signature of Victim or Claimant

