Colorado Revised Statutes Section 24-30-2104 (2025) - Address confidentiality program - creation - substitute address - uses - service by mail - application assistance centers :: 2025 Colorado Revised Statutes :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Other Versions of The
                            Colorado Rev. Stat. 2025 Colorado Rev. Stat. (here) 2024 Colorado Rev. Stat. 2023 Colorado Rev. Stat. View All Versions 2025 Colorado Revised Statutes Title 24 - Government - State (§§ 24-1-101 - 24-117-113) Principal Departments (Arts. 30 - 36) Article 30 - Department of Personnel - State Administrative Support Services (Pts. 1 - 23) Part 21 - Address Confidentiality Program (§§ 24-30-2101 - 24-30-2115) § 24-30-2104. Address confidentiality program - creation - substitute address - uses - service by mail - application assistance centers Universal Citation: CO Rev Stat § 24-30-2104 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next (1) There is created the address confidentiality program in the department to protect the confidentiality of the actual address of a relocated protected health-care worker or a relocated victim of domestic violence, a sexual offense, human trafficking, or stalking and to prevent the victim’s assailants or potential assailants from finding the victim through public records. Under the program, the executive director or the executive director’s designee shall: (a) Designate a substitute address for a program participant that shall be used by state and local government agencies as set forth in this part 21; and (b) Receive mail sent to a program participant at a substitute address and forward the mail to the participant as set forth in subsection (2) of this section. (2) The executive director or his or her designee shall receive first-class, certified, or registered mail on behalf of a program participant and forward the mail to the participant for no charge. The executive director or his or her designee may arrange to receive and forward other classes or kinds of mail at the participant’s expense. Neither the executive director nor his or her designee shall be required to track or otherwise maintain records of any mail received on behalf of a participant unless the mail is certified or registered mail. (3) (a) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, a program participant may be served by registered mail or by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the participant at his or her substitute address with any process, notice, or demand required or permitted by law to be served on the program participant. Service is perfected under this subsection (3) at the earliest of: (I) The date the program participant receives the process, notice, or demand; or (II) Five days after the date shown on the return receipt if signed on behalf of the program participant. (b) This subsection (3) does not prescribe the only means, or necessarily the required means, of serving a program participant in the state. (c) Whenever the laws of the state provide a program participant a legal right to act within a prescribed period of ten days or less after the service of a notice or other paper upon the participant and the notice or paper is served upon the participant by mail pursuant to this subsection (3) or by first-class mail as otherwise authorized by law, five days shall be added to the prescribed period. (4) The executive director or the executive director’s designee may designate as an application assistant any person who: (a) Provides counseling, referral, or other services to victims of domestic violence, a sexual offense, human trafficking, or stalking, if applicable; (b) Completes any training and registration process required by the executive director or the executive director’s designee, if applicable; and (c) Provides counseling, referrals, or other services to individuals accessing a legally protected health-care activity, as defined in section 12-30-121 (1)(d), if applicable. (5) Any assistance and counseling rendered by the executive director or his or her designee or an application assistant to an applicant related to this part 21 shall in no way be construed as legal advice. History Source: L. 2011: Entire part added with relocations,(HB 11-1080), ch. 256, p. 1110, § 2, effective June 2. L. 2023: IP(1) and (4) amended,(SB 23-188), ch. 68, p. 248, § 19, effective April 14. L. 2024: IP(1) and (4)(a) amended,(HB 24-1345), ch. 317, p. 2124, § 6, effective May 31. Annotations Research References & Practice Aids Hierarchy Notes: C.R.S. Title 24 C.R.S. Title 24, Principal Departments C.R.S. Title 24, Art. 30, Pt. 21 State Notes Notes Editor’s note: This section is similar to former § 24-21-204 as it existed prior to 2011. Research References & Practice Aids Cross references: For the legislative declaration in SB 23-188, see section 1 of chapter 68, Session Laws of Colorado 2023. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Colorado may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Toggle button Get free summaries of new opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions