Colorado Revised Statutes Section 24-4.1-105 (2025) - Application for compensation :: 2025 Colorado Revised Statutes :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Other Versions of The
                            Colorado Rev. Stat. 2025 Colorado Rev. Stat. (here) 2024 Colorado Rev. Stat. 2023 Colorado Rev. Stat. View All Versions 2025 Colorado Revised Statutes Title 24 - Government - State (§§ 24-1-101 - 24-117-113) Administration (Arts. 1 - 19.9) Article 4.1 - Crime Victim Compensation and Victim and Witness Rights (Pts. 1 - 5) Part 1 - Crime Victim Compensation Act (§§ 24-4.1-100.1 - 24-4.1-124) § 24-4.1-105. Application for compensation Universal Citation: CO Rev Stat § 24-4.1-105 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next (1) A person who may be eligible for compensation under this part 1 may apply to the board in the judicial district in which the crime was committed. In a case in which the person entitled to apply is a minor, the application may be made on the minor’s behalf by the minor’s parent or guardian. In a case in which the person entitled to apply is mentally incompetent, the application may be made on the person’s behalf by the person’s parent, conservator, or guardian or by any other individual authorized to administer the person’s estate. (2) (a) In order to be eligible for compensation under this part 1, the applicant shall submit reports, if reasonably available, from any physician who has treated or examined the victim at the time of or subsequent to the victim’s injury or death. The report shall be in relation to the injury for which compensation is claimed. If, in the opinion of the board, reports on the previous medical history of the victim, a report on the examination of the injured victim, or the report on the cause of death of the victim by a medical expert would be of material aid to its determination, the board may order the reports. (b) In order to be eligible for compensation for property damage under this part 1, the applicant shall submit a report or case number, if reasonably available, from a law enforcement agency which shall set forth the nature of the property damage which is the result of a compensable crime. (3) If the applicant makes any false statement as to a material fact, the applicant is ineligible for approval pursuant to this part 1. History Source: L. 81: Entire article added, p. 1137, § 5, effective July 1. L. 83:(2) amended, p. 669, § 17, effective July 1. L. 84: Entire section amended, p. 657, § 8, effective May 14. L. 2024:(1) and (3) amended,(SB 24-120), ch. 177, p. 960, § 4, effective May 15. Annotations Research References & Practice Aids Hierarchy Notes: C.R.S. Title 24 C.R.S. Title 24, Art. 4.1 State Notes ANNOTATION A crime victim compensation board (CVCB) is not prohibited from compensating a crime victim for wages the victim expects to lose in the future. A CVCB may reimburse a crime victim for lost wages without specifying whether that amount includes only wages lost in the past, or wages that will be lost in the future. People v. Bohn, 2015 COA 178, 381 P.3d 335. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Colorado may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Something went wrong, please try again later. Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Toggle button Get free summaries of new opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions