OVP: Sexual Assault Victim Emergency Payment Program (SAVE) | Division of Criminal Justice Skip to main content 0 OVP: Sexual Assault Victim Emergency Payment Program (SAVE) Sexual Assault Information and Resources Colorado's Response The Office for Victims Programs (OVP) provides resources to assist hospitals, communities, and sexual assault victims. Our office works with agency partners to improve outcomes for adult victims of sexual assault. Current efforts include the Sexual Assault Victim Emergency Fund Program (SAVE); the Forensic Compliance Team (FCT); and the Colorado Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner/Sexual Assault Forensic Examiner Project. Options for Medical Forensic Care Victims of sexual assault in Colorado have three options for getting medical care, collecting possible forensic (DNA) evidence, reporting the crime to police, and financial assistance for the medical costs associated with the sexual assault. The three options are: Report the sexual assault to police; Report the sexual assault to medical providers without a police investigation (referred to as medical reporting); or Report to medical providers but remain anonymous to the police (referred to as anonymous reporting). In all sexual assault cases, victims determine whether to have a medical forensic exam (sexual assault specific medical care and evidence collection). Victims are not financially responsible for the cost of the evidence collection portion of the exam. During the exam, the individual determines what, if any, evidence will be collected. For the latest information on your reporting options and medical care locations,  please visit YOU have the RIGHT . Sexual Assault Victim Emergency Payment Program (SAVE) The Sexual Assault Victim Emergency Payment Program (SAVE) provides financial assistance to medical and anonymous reporting victims of sexual assault. The program helps pay for costs associated with obtaining a medical forensic exam (MFE). SAVE Program Contact Information The SAVE Program will pay for routine costs associated with obtaining a medical forensic exam. If you have questions about the SAVE program, please contact Jill Nore at 303-239-5714 or by email . Eligibility Only medical and anonymous reporting victims are eligible for the SAVE program. This program provides payment assistance to medical and anonymous reporting victims for (in priority order): The cost of the evidence collection portion of the medical forensic exam.  Survivors never pay this cost. Routine costs associated with accessing a medical forensic exam (MFE). Some medical expenses related to injuries sustained from the sexual assault. For FY (fiscal year) 2026, the current per incident cap payable by the SAVE program is $4,000. This amount is inclusive of the MFE and associated medical costs incurred from a sexual assault. The cap is subject to change based on the availability of funds. How Are Medical Forensic Exams Paid For Victim/Survivor elects not to participate with law enforcement The Division of Criminal Justice will pay for the evidence collection portion of a medical forensic exam. Hospitals may contact Jill Nore for payment. If the victim has insurance and requests that their insurance is billed, the hospital bills the survivor's insurance for related costs. If the victim makes an anonymous or medical report, the SAVE program will pay for insurance deductibles and co-pays. After the SAVE program has paid the hospital for eligible medical expenses (up to the cap), the patient is responsible for paying any outstanding balances. Victim/Survivor reports the sexual assault to law enforcement The law enforcement agency will pay the cost of the evidence collection portion of the medical exam. A law enforcement reporting victim may be able to request Victim Compensation to cover additional costs associated with the assault. What if I Decide to Report to Law Enforcement After Receiving the Exam If the survivor chooses not to make a report to law enforcement, they still can do so at a later time. Any medical bills they have after reporting to law enforcement may be covered through Victim Compensation , rather than the SAVE program. COSAK and Track It House Bill 23-1199 set forth the requirement for the Colorado Department of Public Safety (CDPS), Division of Criminal Justice (DCJ), to create a statewide system for victims of sexual assault to monitor the status and location of their sexual assault evidence collection kit. This system will track all forensic medical evidence kits completed on June 30, 2025 and forward. This legislation requires “ every state or local law enforcement agency, medical facility, crime laboratory, or other person or entity that supplies or performs forensic medical evidence examinations, analyzes evidence obtained from forensic medical evidence examinations, or is responsible for the storage or destruction of evidence obtained from forensic medical evidence examinations, to participate in the tracking system .” The Federal Bureau of Investigation, tribal law enforcement and tribal medical providers may participate in the tracking system but are not required to. As part of this new tracking system, medical providers will order new SAFE kits from our State SAFE kit provider. The new kits will include barcodes. Each entity (medical provider, law enforcement, forensic laboratory) will access the tracking system called COSAK to provide kit movement activity using this new barcode number. Medical providers will give the survivor a card that contains the barcode number and website address that will allow them to monitor the movement of their SAFE kit. Survivor's can find more information through DCJ's TrackIt website , including: the earliest anticipated date of destruction of the SAFE kit & how to object to the destruction; financial assistance; updated sexual assault statutes; deadlines for processing, custody, analysis, and destruction of SAFE kit evidence; Law enforcement contact information; and Community-based resources and services for victim of sexual assault Forensic Compliance Team The Forensic Compliance Team (FCT) is a group of multidisciplinary stakeholders. The team meets quarterly. They address forensic compliance and policy concerns related to sexual assault in Colorado. They provide feedback and support to Colorado service providers to ensure state compliance with the Violence Against Women Act forensic compliance mandates . The Colorado Coalition for Sexual Assault (CCASA) is currently evaluating how forensic compliance is being implemented. For more information about this research project, please visit CCASA's Special Projects webpage . Colorado SANE/SAFE Project The Colorado Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner/Sexual Assault Forensic Examiner (SANE/SAFE) Project (COSSP) is a statewide resource for medical forensic exam programs. Since 2013, the COSSP, through a grant with the Colorado Division of Criminal Justice, has provided SANE/SAFE education, clinical training, technical assistance to all SANE programs, SANE/SAFE clinicians and multidisciplinary Sexual Assault  Response Teams (SARTs) in the state of Colorado. By using both web based and live training, the Colorado SANE/SAFE Project assists clinicians in maintaining the skills necessary to care for sexually assaulted patients and to foster program growth and sustainability. Recently, the COSSP has partnered with multiple rural SANE programs to provide teleSANE support to further serve this population and these programs. For more information, visit the SANE/SAFE Project website . Additional Resources Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner locations Evidence Testing (Colorado Bureau of Investigation) Safeta.org (search available SANE/SAFE services by State) Sex Offender Management Board (Information on sex offender treatment & supervision) Colorado Crime Victim Compensation (CVC) The National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey (NISVS) Native American Resources Partners Colorado Coalition Against Sexual Assault Colorado District Attorneys' Council Colorado SANE/SAFE Project