N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 525.12 - Manner of payment; awards | State Regulations | US Law | LII / Legal Information Institute Please help us improve our site! × No thank you N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 525.12 - Manner of payment; awards State Regulations Compare (a) The award
				shall be paid in a lump sum, except that in the case of death or protracted
				disability the award shall provide for periodic payments to compensate for loss
				of earnings or support. No award shall be subject to execution or attachment
				other than for expenses resulting from the injury which is the basis for the
				claim. (b) In cases in which the
				claimant is a minor or incompetent, the award may be paid to a relative,
				guardian, committee, conservator or attorney of such person on behalf of and
				for the benefit of such person. In such cases the payee may be required to file
				a periodic accounting of the award with the office and take such other action
				as the office shall determine is necessary and appropriate for the benefit of
				the minor or incompetent. (c) If
				there are two or more persons entitled to an award as a result of the death of
				a person which is the direct result of a crime, the office shall apportion the
				award among the claimants in the proportion as it finds that the deceased
				victim contributed to their support. (d) In the event of a change of dependency of
				the claimant or any of them, either by marriage of a widow or otherwise, the
				office may change the proportion and the amount of the payments to the
				claimant. (e) In death cases the
				office shall, at least every 12 months, verify the dependency and financial
				circumstances of the claimants; and upon finding a change, the office may
				reduce or increase the proportion of the allowance and award to the claimants
				as the circumstances warrant. (f) In protracted disability cases the office shall, at least every 12 months,
				verify the disability of the claimant to determine whether he or she is
				entitled to continue to receive periodical payments either in the amount
				awarded or in a reduced amount. (g) Any compensation award made pursuant to Executive Law, article 22, shall be in
				an amount not exceeding out-of-pocket expenses, including indebtedness
				reasonably incurred for medical or other services necessary as a result of the
				injury upon which the claim is based, together with loss of earnings or support
				resulting from such injury. (1) If the injury
				causes death, the award shall include funeral, burial plot and marker cost, not
				exceeding: (i) $6,000 for crimes occurring on
				and after 11/1/96, claims submitted by any person who incurs such
				costs; (ii) $2,000 for crimes
				occurring on and after 6/12/91 until 10/31/96, claims submitted by any person
				who incurs such costs; (iii) $2,500
				for crimes occurring on and after 8/1/85 until 6/11/91, claims submitted by any
				person who incurs such costs; (iv) $1,500 for crimes occurring on and after 7/30/83 until 7/31/85, claims
				submitted by any person who incurs such costs; (v) $1,500 for crimes occurring on and after
				6/15/82 until 7/29/83, claims submitted by family members; (vi) $1,500 for crimes occurring on and after
				6/16/68 until 6/14/82, claims submitted by a surviving spouse, parent or
				child; (vii) $1,000 for crimes
				occurring on and after 8/1/66 until 6/15/68, claims submitted by a surviving
				spouse or child. (2) Where a third party, non-claimant pays for a causally-related out-of-pocket
				expense on behalf of a claimant and the third party has no contractual
				responsibility to the claimant to make such payment, the office shall require
				affidavits from both the claimant and the third party stating that the payment
				by the third party was meant as a loan to the claimant, as proof for the office
				to reimburse the third party. (3) In order for the costs associated with new or enhanced security devices, beyond
				those which, pursuant to the Executive Law are repaired or replaced under
				subdivision 2 of section 631, or are awarded under subdivision 12 of section 631 , to be compensable, the office shall require a statement from the
				claimant's physician or counselor, or the district attorney handling the
				victim's case, indicating that without the aid of such a device the claimant's
				health is in imminent danger. Compensable costs shall be limited to the devices
				themselves and their installation, and shall not include the periodic service
				charges for monitoring or maintaining any such devices. (4) The office may require proof from
				claimants for all claims of crime-related counseling expenses which are filed
				more than one year after counseling has begun. The claimants shall offer
				evidence to the office that the counseling is causally connected to the crime
				and the office may request an independent medical examination of any claimant
				before authorizing reimbursement for reasonable expenses of counseling
				services. (5) Court transportation
				expenses. (i) An award shall include
				reasonable transportation expenses of the claimant incurred for necessary court
				appearances in connection with the prosecution of the crime upon which the
				claim is based. (ii) Except for
				calculating the reimbursement rate for mileage traveled in instances where a
				claimant has provided his or her own transportation, the standards for the
				rates of reimbursement for State employees as promulgated by the Department of
				Audit and Control and set forth in 2 NYCRR Part 8 , shall be followed in making
				a determination as to the reasonableness of the travel expense incurred as well
				as the amount of reimbursement. When a claimant has provided his or her own
				transportation, the standards for the rates of reimbursement for mileage
				traveled shall be calculated as set forth in section 525.3 (e) of this Part. The rates of reimbursement in effect on the date the travel
				expense for the necessary court appearance was incurred shall be
				controlling. (iii) Any claimant
				eligible to receive an award under article 22 and this Part shall be eligible
				for an award for transportation expenses incurred for necessary court
				appearances. (6) Any
				award for financial counseling expenses must be related to the crime and shall
				not exceed the actual monetary loss or fraudulent charges and/or debt incurred
				by the victim. For services provided during a six-month period or longer, the
				office shall require evidence on a semiannual basis that such counseling
				continues to be necessary as a direct result of the crime. (7) An award for crime-related counseling
				expenses may be made to: (i) certain family
				members, pursuant to paragraph (b) of subdivision 1 of section 624 of the
				Executive Law, including spouses, grandparents, parents, stepparents,
				guardians, brothers, sisters, stepbrothers, stepsisters, children or
				stepchildren of homocide victims, if otherwise eligible and as a result of the
				death of such victim; (ii) certain
				family members, pursuant to paragraph (h) of subdivision 1 of section 624 of the
				Executive Law, including parents, stepparents, grandparents, guardians,
				brothers, sisters, stepbrothers or stepsisters of child victims, if otherwise
				eligible and as a result of the victimization of such child victims;
				and (iii) child victims, pursuant
				to subdivision 17 of section 631 of the
				Executive Law, if otherwise eligible and as a result of having witnessed a
				crime. (h) Direct reimbursement for services to a sexual assault survivor . (1) Definitions: (i) Licensed provider shall mean any New York
				State accredited hospital or licensed physician, nurse practitioner, registered
				nurse or physician assistant practicing within the State of New York whose
				performance of services to a sexual assault survivor is within the scope of
				practice of the discipline in which he or she holds a license or any other
				sexual assault examiner certified by the Department of Health to conduct such
				services. (ii) Sexual assault shall
				mean any sexual offense defined in article 130 of the New York State Penal
				Law. (iii) Services to a sexual
				assault survivor shall mean the medical examination and treatment directly
				related to a sexual assault, including but not limited to sexual offense
				evidence collection. (iv) Sexual
				offense evidence collection shall mean an examination conducted by a licensed
				provider as defined in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph for the purpose of
				collecting and preserving evidence to document a sexual assault, conducted in
				accordance with the sexual offense evidence protocol and standards established
				by the Department of Health. Information about these protocols may be obtained
				from the Department of Health at the following address and website: The Bureau of Womn, Infant, and Adolescent Health NYS Department of Health Room 821, Tower Building Empire State Plaza Albany, New York 12237-0621 Phone: (518) 474-3664 https://www.health.ny.gov/professionals/safe/ (v) Sexual offense evidence collection kit
				shall mean a standard package of materials, instructions and forms for licensed
				providers to use in the collection and preservation of evidence from a sexual
				assault survivor's body. (vi) Claim
				form shall mean the New York State Office of Victim Services Medical Provider
				Sexual Assault Services Direct Reimbursement Claim Form. In addition to being
				included in the Sexual Offense Evidence Collection Kit, this form is available
				from the Office of Victim Services online at http://www.ovs.ny.gov . (vii) Billable codes shall mean standard
				medical billing codes that are recognized by the New York State Department of
				Health Medicaid program, including but not limited to ICD-10 Diagnosis codes,
				Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) codes, Healthcare Common Procedural Coding
				System (HCPCS) codes and National Drug Codes (NDC). (2) Notwithstanding any contrary provisions,
				whenever a licensed provider administers services to a sexual assault survivor, such provider shall render such services without charge and shall bill the
				office directly for such services, unless the sexual assault survivor assigns
				his or her private insurance benefits for the services, in which case the
				office shall not be billed for such services by the provider pursuant to this
				subdivision. Except as provided in paragraph (6) of this subdivision, nothing
				in this section shall preclude a licensed provider from billing a sexual
				assault survivor for medical services unrelated to the medical examination and
				treatment directly related to a sexual assault as set forth in subparagraphs
				(5)(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of this subdivision. (3) At the time of the initial visit, the
				provider shall: (i) request assignment of any
				private health insurance benefits on a form prescribed by the office; (ii) advise a sexual assault survivor orally
				and in writing that he or she may decline to provide private health insurance
				information if he or she believes it would substantially interfere with his or
				her personal privacy or safety; (iii) advise a sexual assault survivor that
				providing such information may provide additional resources to pay for services
				to other sexual assault victims; and (iv) require that if he or she declines to
				provide such health insurance information, he or she shall indicate such
				decision on the form prescribed by the office. (4) Eligibility criteria. (i) To establish eligibility, a licensed
				provider shall submit a completed Claim Form as defined in subparagraph (1)(vi)
				of this subdivision and attach an itemized bill indicating the relevant medical
				services and proper billable codes associated with each service provided to the
				office at the address below: Office of Victim Services Alfred E. Smith State Office Building 80 South Swan Street, 2nd Floor Albany, NY 12210-8002 (ii) Upon receipt of a completed Claim Form
				with an itemized bill including proper billable codes and acceptance by the
				Office of Victim Services, payment will be authorized directly to the licensed
				provider through the appropriate billing facility as set forth in paragraph (8)
				of this subdivision. (5) The office has determined that reimbursable expenses shall include at a
				minimum: (i) forensic examiner and hospital
				or healthcare facility services directly related to the services to a sexual
				assault survivor, including integral forensic supplies; (ii) scope procedures directly related to the
				services to a sexual assault survivor, including but not limited to anoscopy
				and colposcopy; (iii) any laboratory
				testing directly related to the services to a sexual assault survivor, including drug screening, urinalysis, pregnancy screening, syphilis screening,
				chlamydia culture, gonorrhea coverage culture, blood test for HIV screening,
				hepatitis B and C, herpes culture and any other STD testing directly related to
				the services to a sexual assault survivor; (iv) any pharmaceuticals directly related to
				the services to a sexual assault survivor, including STD, pregnancy, hepatitis
				prophylaxis and HIV post-exposure prophylaxis provided pursuant to subdivision
				13 of section 631 of the
				executive law; (v) Except as
				provided in this subdivision, charges for inpatient services, and for services
				other than those included in this subdivision are not included in this rate and
				shall not be reimbursable under this subdivision, but shall continue to be
				reimbursable under established office procedure pursuant to article 22 of the
				executive law. (6) The
				victim shall not be responsible for the payment of the cost of any services
				specified by the provider in its submission to the office pursuant to this
				subdivision. The licensed provider must accept the reimbursement rate as
				payment in full for those services submitted to the office pursuant to this
				subdivision . The licensed provider shall not submit any remaining balance due
				for such services after submission to the office to the victim or commence
				civil actions against the victim to recover any balance due for such
				services. (7) The costs for
				multiple examinations of the same victim will not be reimbursed. The cost of
				only one examination per victim per alleged sexual assault will be considered a
				reimbursable cost pursuant to this subdivision. In the event that more than one
				visit is necessary to complete one such examination, the facility shall include
				all charges related to the complete examination in their application. (8) For the services to a sexual assault
				survivor, the office will reimburse the facility in which the services were
				conducted and whose operator's certificate number or facility identification,
				if applicable, appears on the Claim Form, pursuant to subdivision 13 of section 631 of the
				executive law . The amount reimbursed to the facility shall then, if
				applicable, be proportionately allocated among the service providers by the
				billing facility. When making application under this subdivision, the billing
				facility shall: (i) Itemize the services
				rendered by any licensed provider using proper billable codes, and (ii) If a sexual offense evidence collection
				kit was used, itemize the services rendered using proper billable codes for any
				elements which comprise the use of the sexual offense evidence collection kit.
				In no event shall reimbursement be considered in excess of the difference
				between the maximum rates established by subparagraphs 1 and 2 of paragraph b
				of subdivision 13 of section 631 of the
				executive law. (9) Expenses must be related to services to a sexual assault survivor performed
				within 120 hours following the incident. This reporting time shall be waived
				for a child victim or for any victim if good cause has been shown. (i) In no event shall reimbursement be
				considered pursuant to subparagraph 2 of paragraph b of subdivision 13 of
				section 631 of the
				executive law, related to the use of a sexual offense evidence collection kit,
				when the sexual assault survivor presents in excess of 120 hours after the
				alleged sexual assault. (10) A claim 's initial submission to the
				office for reimbursement of expenses associated with services to a sexual
				assault survivor made pursuant to this section must be submitted within one
				-hundred eighty days of the date of the examination to the office pursuant to
				paragraph 4 of this subdivision. (i) (1) The
				office may award loss of earnings or support in accordance with this Part,
				subdivision 3 of section 631 of the
				Executive Law and subject to any applicable maximum award limitations pursuant
				to article 22 of the Executive Law, for such amounts that can be verified to
				the satisfaction of the office. (i) Any award
				for loss of earnings shall include time which an employee was absent from work
				and not paid for the date or time off. (ii) Except as provided in subparagraph (iii)
				of this paragraph, any award for loss of earnings or support shall be limited
				to the victim's income which has been reported to an appropriate taxing
				authority. (iii) If during an
				investigation of a claim the office determines that such income is not subject
				to taxation, the office shall request alternative information to verify such
				income. (2) An award for
				loss of earnings by a parent or guardian as a result of the hospitalization of
				a child victim under the age of 18 for injuries sustained as a direct result of
				a crime, shall further be limited by the following: (i) the victim's full loss of earnings shall
				take priority over any other eligible claim for loss of earnings by a parent or
				guardian based on the victim's hospitalization; (ii) should more than one parent or guardian
				be eligible for an award for loss of earnings, the office shall only award the
				first eligible claim received, in addition to the victim's claim, per
				hospitalization period or portion of such period; (iii) the total weekly award for an eligible
				claimant or claimants shall not exceed $600. See Executive Law section 631 (3);
				and (iv) the total loss of earnings
				award for an eligible claimant or claimants shall not exceed $30,000. See
				Executive Law section 631 (2). (3) (i) Except as provided in subparagraph (ii)
				of this paragraph, and pursuant to and in accordance with this Part and
				Executive Law article 22 and subject to any applicable maximum award
				limitations contained therein, any award for a victim's loss of earnings shall
				be limited to a period of disability resulting from crime-related injuries as
				established by the medical evidence obtained during the investigation of a
				claim. (ii) If during the
				investigation of the claim such period of disability can not be established by
				medical evidence, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that such victim has
				suffered a period of disability of not longer than seven consecutive days
				beginning on the date of the crime. The office may award loss of earnings for
				such period, or a portion thereof. (j) Notwithstanding any contrary provisions
				of this Part, claims with respect to a livery operator victim shall be
				investigated on an expedited basis and a decision shall be made within 30 days
				of the date upon which the claim was accepted for filing. (1) Each award for loss of earnings pursuant
				to this paragraph made with respect to a claim involving a livery operator
				assault victim shall be for such period of time as the office determines that
				the livery operator assault victim is unable to work and has lost earnings as a
				result of such assault, in an amount not to exceed $20,000. Such award shall be
				distributed in increments of $500 per week. (2) Each award for loss of support pursuant
				to this paragraph made with respect to a claim involving a livery operator
				homicide victim shall be in the amount of $20,000, distributed in increments of
				$500 per week. (k) Any
				claimant may submit an additional claim for any loss of earnings or support in
				excess of the amount awarded pursuant to this section, or an additional claim
				for any other award pursuant to this Part or Executive Law article 22, in each
				case pursuant to and in accordance with this Part and Executive Law article 22
				and subject to any applicable maximum award limitations contained
				therein. (l) The office is payer of
				last resort and as such, the claimant must exhaust all collateral sources
				available to them pursuant to subdivision 4 of section
				631 of the
				Executive Law. All awards made pursuant to Executive Law article 22 and this
				Part shall be reduced in the manner prescribed in subdivision 4 of section 631 of the
				Executive Law, provided however that any payments received or to be received by
				the claimant or victim as the result of a private civil action brought against
				the "profits of a crime" or the "funds of a convicted person" pursuant to
				section 632-a of the Executive Law shall not reduce the amount of such awards. (m) When determining an award, the office
				must consider conduct contributing to the crime or criminal injury. (1) All awards made pursuant to Executive Law
				Article 22 and this Part shall be either reduced or denied altogether for
				conduct contributing in the following manner: (i) 100% denial of award. Any conduct on part
				of the victim, as indicated by law enforcement in the investigation of the
				claim pursuant to subdivision (b) of section 525.5 of this part, constituting felonies or misdemeanors involving violence. For the
				purpose of this subparagraph, the term "violence" shall include, but not be
				limited to: gang activity, the dealing of illegal drugs, being the initial
				aggressor, and the use or brandishing of illegal firearms or other dangerous
				instruments at or near the time of the crime. (ii) 75% reduction of award. Any conduct on
				part of the victim, as indicated by law enforcement in the investigation of the
				claim pursuant to subdivision (b) of section 525.5 of this part, constituting any other felony not considered in subparagraph (i)
				of this paragraph. (iii) 50%
				reduction of award. Any conduct on part of the victim, as indicated by law
				enforcement in the investigation of the claim pursuant to subdivision (b) of
				section 525.5 of this part, constituting any other misdemeanor not considered in subparagraph
				(i) of this paragraph. (iv) 25
				percent reduction of award. All other conduct on part of the victim, not
				considered in subparagraph (i), (ii) or (iii) of this paragraph, as indicated
				in the investigation of the claim pursuant to subdivision (b) of section 525.5 of this Part. (2) Notwithstanding the provisions paragraph (1) of this subdivision, if the crime
				upon which the claim is based resulted in the death of the victim, awards made
				pursuant to Executive Law article 22 and this Part shall be reduced for conduct
				contributing in the following manner: (i) 50
				percent denial of award. Any conduct on part of the victim, as indicated by law
				enforcement in the investigation of the claim pursuant to subdivision (b) of
				section 525.5 of this Part, constituting felonies or misdemeanors involving violence. For the
				purpose of this subparagraph, the term ''violence'' shall include, but not be
				limited to: gang activity, the dealing of illegal drugs, being the initial
				aggressor, and the use or brandishing of illegal firearms or other dangerous
				instruments at or near the time of the crime. (ii) 25 percent reduction of award. Any
				conduct on part of the victim, as indicated by law enforcement in the
				investigation of a claim pursuant to subdivision (b) of section 525.5 of this Part, constituting any other felony not considered in subparagraph (i)
				of this paragraph. (iii) Any other
				conduct on part of the victim, not considered in subparagraph (i) or (ii) of
				this paragraph, as indicated in the investigation of the claim pursuant to
				subdivision (b) of section 525.5 of this Part, shall not be considered a reason to reduce an
				award. (3) However, when
				considering conduct contributing the office shall examine the following
				mitigating factors: the victim was a minor, a victim of human trafficking, a
				sex worker, or a victim of sexual assault. If any such mitigating factors are
				found in the investigation of the claim pursuant to subdivision (b) of section 525.5 of this part, the office may make an award without reduction for conduct
				contributing. (n) Pursuant to and in accordance with this Part and Executive Law article 22 and
				subject to any applicable maximum award limitations contained therein, any
				award for essential personal property related to the victim's welfare shall be
				subject to the following limitations: (1) All
				awards related to clothing shall be limited as follows: (i) Items of outerwear, suits and footwear
				shall be the receipted amount, in an amount not exceeding five-hundred dollars
				per item. (ii) All other items of
				clothing shall be the receipted amount, in an amount not exceeding one-hundred
				dollars per item. (2) All
				awards related to bedding shall be limited as follows: (i) Mattress and platform or box spring shall
				be the receipted amount, in an amount not exceeding two-thousand
				dollars. (ii) All other items of
				bedding shall be the receipted amount, in a cumulative amount not exceeding
				five-hundred dollars. (3) All awards made pursuant to Executive Law article 22 and this Part related to a
				victim's ability to communicate shall be limited to the receipted amount, in an
				amount not exceeding one-thousand five-hundred dollars per item. (4) All awards made pursuant to Executive Law
				article 22 and this Part related to a victim's safe operation of their personal
				means of transportation shall be limited to the receipted amount, in an amount
				not exceeding two-thousand five-hundred dollars per item. (5) Notwithstanding the provisions of
				paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) of this subdivision, if the information developed in
				the course of the investigation discloses that the victim's domicile was
				damaged or destroyed as a result of the crime of arson as defined by article
				150 of the Penal Law and the claim is based upon such crime, or that the victim
				had to flee their domicile due to the crime upon which the claim is based, and
				the Office has not made or cannot make an award for relocation expenses
				pursuant to Executive Law article 22, the Office may make an award for related
				clothing, bedding and/or ability to communicate, unreceipted, in an amount up
				to the applicable maximum award limitations contained in Executive Law article
				22. (6) Notwithstanding the
				provisions of paragraphs (1), (2), (3) or (4) of this subdivision, if the
				information developed in the course of the investigation discloses that the
				claim for essential personal property is related to the victim's health or
				safety, such award shall be limited to the receipted amount, subject to the
				applicable maximum award limitations contained in Executive Law article
				22. Notes N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 525.12 Amended New
				  York State Register January 13, 2016/Volume XXXVIII, Issue 02 ,
				  eff. 1/13/2016 Amended New
				  York State Register February 19, 2020/Volume XLII, Issue 07 , eff. 2/19/2020 Amended New
				  York State Register October 12, 2022/Volume XLIV, Issue 41 , eff. 10/12/2022 State regulations are updated quarterly; we currently have two versions available.
                        Below is a comparison between our most recent version and the prior quarterly release. More comparison features will be added as we have more versions to compare. No prior version found. State Regulations Toolbox