Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) | Department of State Skip to main content Address Confidentiality Program The ACP provides eligible participants with a substitute address and free mail forwarding service to keep their real address safe NEW! ACP LOGO REVISION The New York State Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) is pleased to announce a new logo for the Program. State and local government agencies and other organizations should still accept the former logo when interacting with ACP participants LEARN MORE Start Your ACP Application Apply Here Contact the Address Confidentiality Program For assistance or questions about the program, call: 1-855-350-4595 Email: [email protected] Mailing Address: Address Confidentiality Program P.O. Box 1110 Albany, NY 12201-1110 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) READ NOW About the Address Confidentiality Program card image About the Program Learn about the history of the program, how it works, and the Program’s governing statute and regulations. The New York State Address Confidentiality Program 2025 Logo Update Why are ACPs important? LEARN MORE card image How to Apply to the ACP Learn more about the various ways to apply to the program. Eligibility How to Apply Non-English Resources LEARN MORE card image Information for Agencies and Organizations Resources for stakeholders who are not participants in the Program but may be working with a participant. For Government Agencies Waiver Process Service of Process LEARN MORE Resources for Participants and Stakeholders card image Current and Former Participants Please review these prompts to ensure you follow the correct steps to change your information and request assistance. How to Update Your Name & Address How to Renew or Reactivate Your Membership How to Withdraw from the Program LEARN MORE card image Application Assistance Providers Learn more about where to find an Application Assistance Provider near you or how to become a certified AAP Overview For Current and Former Application Assistance Providers How to Become an Application Assistance Provider LEARN MORE card image ACP Forms, Brochures and Reports Access ACP’s inventory of forms, brochures, and reports. Forms Brochures Annual Report LEARN MORE card image Law Enforcement Resources for law enforcement officers on how the ACP works and guidance for working with ACP participants Overview Law Enforcement Training Law Enforcement Guide LEARN MORE Other New York State Resources Domestic Violence New York State Hotline for Sexual Assault and Domestic Violence Call the New York State Domestic and Sexual Violence Hotline at 1-800-942-6906. New York State Office for the Prevention of Domestic Violence The Office for the Prevention of Domestic Violence (OPDV) is the country’s only... New York State Coalition Against Domestic Violence NYSCADV provides training, support, technical assistance and advocacy to local... New York State Coalition Against Sexual Assault NYSCASA’s mission is to end all forms of sexual violence and exploitation, and... National Human Trafficking Hotline Get help and call 1-888-373-7888 (TTY: 711) or *Text 233733. New York Attorney General To report activity that you suspect is related to human trafficking, email the... Scroll back to the top of the page Department of State CONNECT WITH US Facebook Youtube X (formerly Twitter)