Forensic Rape Examination (FRE) Direct Reimbursement Program | Office of Victim Services Skip to main content Forensic Rape Exam Direct Reimbursement Program OVS can directly reimburse medical providers for forensic rape exams when sexual assault survivors do not have private health insurance or choose not to use their insurance. Billing Guidance OVS laws governing reimbursement for FRE services have recently changed. FRE claims received by the agency on or after February 3, 2026 will be paid according to the OVS fee schedule for services rendered and the NYS Department of Health Formulary File for pharmaceuticals. Providers should review the Provider Billing Manual for more information about billing and reimbursement. What is a forensic rape exam? The Office of Victim Services directly reimburses medical providers for forensic rape examinations (FREs) if victims of sexual assault do not have access to private health insurance or chose not to use their private health care insurance for the examination. This measure is an exception to the agency’s payer of last resort rule and provides for the personal privacy of victims. An exam may also include collection and preservation of evidence in a Sexual Offense Evidence Collection Kit (SOECK) , which can assist law enforcement if an individual decides to report the crime. Reporting to police is not mandatory, however, and should never prevent someone from seeking medical care. Questions and Support If you have billing questions or require technical assistance, please reach out to the FRE Unit by email at [email protected] or via phone by calling 800-247-8035. FRE Program Documents FRE Direct Reimbursement Program Documents FRE Provider Billing Manual Forensic Rape Exam Direct Reimbursement Program Provider Billing Guidance Manual Download FRE Claim Application for Medical Providers New York State Office Of Victim Services Medical Provider Forensic Rape Examination Direct Reimbursement Claim Form. Download FRE Billing Form Forensic Rape Exam Direct Reimbursement Billing Form. This form should be used in place of institution-specific itemized billing records. Claims submitted on or after January 1, 2024 must utilize this billing form. Download NYSOVS FRE Direct Reimbursement 2026 Fee Schedule NYS OVS Forensic Rape Exam Direct Reimbursement Fee Schedule for services rendered. These rates are effective for FRE claims received by OVS on or after February 3, 2026. Download Scroll back to the top of the page Office of Victim Services CONNECT WITH US Facebook Instagram Linkedin Youtube X (formerly Twitter) Bluesky