Sexual Assault Program | Vermont Center for Crime Victim Services Skip to main content Home About Us Victims Compensation Frequently Asked Questions Eligibility Application & Forms Policies Statutes Sexual Assault Program Restitution Grants Training and Outreach Crime Victim Advisors Resources and Other Help Sexual Assault Program If you have been a victim of sexual assault in Vermont , there is help. The Sexual Assault Program can assist with your medical and mental health counseling expenses after you have experienced a sexual assault. You do not need to report the crime to law enforcement , though you may choose to report to them. The incident, however, must be reported to a medical provider. For example, a person who has experienced a sexual assault can see trained Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner s at hospitals in Vermont to obtain an exam, STI testing, treatment, support services, HIV infection prevention , and collection of evidence. After the visit, you may also be eligible for related follow-up care and mental health counseling services. Sexual Assault Program Mental Health Policy Sexual Assault Program Mental Health Treatment Plan Who is eligible? Victims of sexual assault are eligible if the crime happened in Vermont. The victim does not have to report the crime to the police to be eligible , only to a medical provider . Who pays? This program through the Vermont Center for Crime Victim Services provides resources for payment of out of pocket medical expenses after a victim’s insurance has been billed for sexual assault examinations following the crime. What is covered? Resources are available to pay for the initial sexual assault medical examination to include: collection of evidence STI (sexually transmitted infections) and HIV screening prophylaxis pregnancy testing treatment of related injuries By calling the Claims Specialist for the Sexual Assault Program to notify our office of follow-up care or counseling needs, t he Program can also pay for certain medical follow-up care related to the sexual assault and up to 20 sessions of mental health counseling with a licensed mental health provider of your choice for treatment related to the sexual assault. How to access the Program? Usually a victim of sexual assault will go to an Emergency Room to access services. Th ey will then be seen by a specially trained Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE). The SANE nurse explains the examination process to the person who experienced the victim ization and will ask the m to fill out and sign a Sexual Assault Billing Form. The signed Sexual Assault Billing Form serves as the application to open a claim and gives the Vermont Center for Crime Victim Services permission to: pay the bill contact the medical provider or victim’s insurer to obtain in formation to process bills access follow-up bills obtain an explanation of benefits from a victim’s insurance company. This documentation is needed in order for the Program to pay for th e bills related to the sexual assault . How is confidentiality protected? Because insurance is required to be billed, there are specific procedures put in place to protect a victim’s confidentiality. If the victim identifies a safety/privacy concern and has a Vermont issued insurance policy through Cigna, MVP, or BC/BS - VT the victim can fill out a Protected Health Information form (PHI). The SANE nurse will help the victim fill out this form. The PHI confidential communication form allows the victim to change the address that the insurance company has on file to an address at which the victim will receive an explanation of benefits (EOB) or other documents from the insurance company. An EOB describes the medical care and services that are processed through a victim’s insurance company. The Sexual Assault Program covers eligible sexual assault charges when a victim is uninsured or has an out of state insurance policy. Medicaid does not send explanation of benefits following a procedure so it is not necessary to fill out a PHI form. Will I be contacted by the Sexual Assault Program? You will only be contacted by the Sexual Assault Program if there is missing information on the Sexual Assault Billing Form which prevents us from being able to process payment of your bills. The Sexual Assault Billing Form provides you with the opportunity to provide the Sexual Assault Program with your mailing address, phone number, email, the days of the week and the hours of the day that you are available to be contacted so we can reach you if necessary. If you have any questions please contact the Sexual Assault Program Claims Specialist. Program Contact Information: Vermont Center for Crime Victim Services Sexual Assault Program 60 S. Main St. Waterbury, VT  05672 802-241-1250 x104 802-241-1253 (fax) 800-750-1213 toll free Vermont only Click this button to leave the website immediately. Note that this does not remove site history.