Vermont Center for Crime Victim Services
60 South Main Street
Waterbury, VT 05676-1599
www.ccvs.vermont.gov

[phone]
[phone]
[fax]
[fax]

802-241-1250
800-750-1213
802-241-1253 (Victims Compensation only)
802-241-4337 (General fax)

SEXUAL ASSAULT PROGRAM MENTAL HEALTH POLICY
INTRODUCTION
Coverage for mental health counseling after a person has experienced a sexual
assault and has obtained a sexual assault exam may be covered by the Sexual
Assault Program at the Vermont Center for Crime Victim Services.
If, after receiving a sexual assault examination as defined by statute [V.S.A. 32
§1407(b)], the victim may choose to seek mental health counseling. The Sexual
Assault Program can consider costs for mental health counseling not covered by
the victim’s health insurance. The victim’s insurance must be billed first and any
co-payment, coinsurance, and/or deductible amounts up to the Program’s policy
limits will be considered.1 The Sexual Assault Program can consider payment of
up to 20 sessions of mental health counseling after a victim has obtained a
medical sexual assault examination.
The victim is not required to report the sexual assault to law enforcement.
ELIGIBILITY
Once the Sexual Assault Program has received a Sexual Assault Billing Form from
a health care provider or health care facility verifying that a sexual assault
examination was performed, a claim is opened. The Sexual Assault Program can
then consider payment of counseling, up to 20 sessions. The victim must contact
the Sexual Assault Program Specialist at the Vermont Center for Crime Victim
Services to initiate the counseling process. Once the sexual assault victim has
provided the Program with the name and phone number of the counselor that they
choose, the Program will contact the counselor to set up payment.
Only the victim of sexual assault is eligible for individual or group mental health
services. In cases where the victim is a minor, family therapy is allowable and
must include both the minor victim and the parent/legal guardian in the session(s).

1

If a person seeking counseling has VT-Medicaid and a clinician does not accept it, the insurance requirement can be waived.

Page 1 of 4
Updated 08/12/2024

ELIGIBLE MENTAL HEALTH PROVIDERS
The Program will pay only for allowable services rendered by providers who are
licensed in the state that they practice or registered on the Vermont roster of nonlicensed and non-certified psychotherapists. This list may include:
-Licensed psychologist or licensed psychiatrist.
-Licensed clinical social worker or mental health counselor.
-Psychiatric nurse clinician.
-Certified school counselor, M.Ed.
An emergency services screener working at a mental health agency designated
by the State of Vermont who works under the supervision of a licensed
psychologist, psychiatrist, clinical social worker, or mental health counselor.
The counselor must notify the Sexual Assault Program if their license or roster
becomes inactive, revoked, or conditioned in the state in which they practice. A
counselor must also inform the Sexual Assault Program immediately, in writing, if
charges are ever filed against them by the Office of Professional Regulation.

PAYMENT PROCEDURES
Counseling costs will be paid upon submission of a bill for services rendered
which includes the provider’s address/billing data, appropriate CPT billing code
including minutes, and specific dates that the provider saw the client for each
individual or group counseling session. If the victim has insurance an explanation
of benefits from the insurance company for each date of service billed must be
submitted with the itemized bill. The Program will not consider payment for the
following:
1. Missed appointments
2. Court appearances
3. Travel time
4. Report writing
5. Interest charged on outstanding balances
6. Advocacy functions
7. Crisis telephone counseling
8. Case management

Page 2 of 4
Updated 08/12/2024

GUIDELINES & FEE SCHEDULE
The Sexual Assault Program will pay for up to a maximum of 20 mental health
counseling sessions, either individual or group, relative to the sexual assault
according to the following schedule based on date of service:
August 12, 2024 forward:
 One-hour individual sessions will be paid at a maximum of $100.00 per
session. Individual sessions will be pro-rated according to the length of the
session based on this rate.
 Group sessions will be paid at $45.00 per session flat rate and will not be
pro-rated.
July 1, 2021 - August 11, 2024
 One-hour individual sessions will be paid at a maximum of $85.00 per
session. Individual sessions will be pro-rated according to the length of the
session based on this rate.
 Group sessions will be paid at $45.00 per session flat rate and will not be
pro-rated.
July 1, 2008 – June 30, 2021
 One-hour individual sessions will be paid at a maximum of $70.00 per
session. Individual and family sessions will be pro-rated according to the
length of the session based on this rate.
 Group sessions will be paid at $35.00 per session flat rate and will not be
pro-rated.
If the victim has insurance the Program will pay applicable coinsurance,
copayment, and/or deductible amounts up to maximum allowed per session
based on fee schedule for date of service.
Counseling bills must be submitted to the client’s insurance company first before
submission to the Sexual Assault Program. Providers who are contracted with an
insurance company to accept the insurance company payments as “payment in
full” cannot bill the Sexual Assault Program for the difference in the amount billed
versus the allowable amount that is paid. Coinsurance, copayments and/or
coverage of deductibles are allowed, if charges do not exceed the Program policy
maximums stated above. If the victim is uninsured, bills are submitted directly to
the Sexual Assault Program at the Vermont Center for Crime Victim Services.

Page 3 of 4
Updated 08/12/2024

TREATMENT PLANS
To be eligible for payment of counseling expenses, a counselor must submit a
current Sexual Assault Program Mental Health Treatment Plan which must:
a. Define the symptoms to be treated that are directly related to the sexual
assault/abuse
b. Address how the proposed treatment will help the victim manage those
symptoms
Such treatment plans will be approved for up to a maximum of 20 sessions and
must be submitted after the initial four sessions of treatment. Because early
intervention has proven effective in treating trauma, the Program will pay for up to
four sessions prior to the receipt of an initial treatment plan. The first four sessions
are considered part of the initial 20 sessions of the initial treatment plan.
CHILD VICTIMS IN DEPARTMENT OF CHILDREN AND FAMILIES (DCF)
CUSTODY
The Sexual Assault Program does not cover counseling for those children who are
in the custody of the Vermont Department of Children and Families that have been
sexually assaulted.

Page 4 of 4
Updated 08/12/2024

