APPLICATION FOR VERMONT VICTIMS
COMPENSATION
We realize that this is a difficult time for you. If you need help filling out this form, call the Victims

Compensation Program at the numbers listed below. You can also visit our website for more
information.

The Victims Compensation Program provides limited financial assistance to victims of crime who
have experienced a financial loss as the direct result of the crime, as long as the loss is not reimbursable
through other sources, such as insurance.

Victims Compensation Program
58 South Main Street, Suite One
Waterbury, Vermont 05676-1599
1-800-750-1213 (Voice – VT only)
1-802-241-1250 (Voice)
1-802-241-1253 (fax)

www.ccvs.vermont.gov

Keep this page for your records.

Eligibility Requirements


The crime has been reported to a law enforcement officer, who must conclude that a crime was
committed.



The victim has suffered physical injury or emotional harm as a direct result of a crime.



The crime was committed in Vermont, or was committed against a Vermont resident in a country that
does not have a Compensation Program.



The crime was committed after July 1, 1987.



The victim did not violate a criminal law of this state which caused or contributed to his or her injuries
or death.



Family members of a homicide victim are also eligible.

Where appropriate, money is available to pay for the following expenses, as long as they have not already been
paid by other sources:


Medical and dental care



Counseling for victims and family members



Funeral expenses



Lost wages due to time missed from work



Other expenses such as prescriptions, eyeglasses, and limited transportation costs



If death occurs as a result of the crime, legal dependents may receive temporary living expenses



Limited relocation assistance



Pet care/injury/death

Property losses are generally not covered.

Application Instructions
You must complete all of this application. Make sure that you:
1. Sign and date the “Authorization to Obtain Information” section of the application. You may provide an
alternative expiration date if desired.
2. Sign and date the “Repayment, Restitution, and Subrogation” section of the application.
3. Sign and date after the “certification statement.”
4. After you fill out this application, please tape or staple all sides to seal before mailing.
If you would prefer to mail your application to us in a separate envelope and do not have a stamp, please contact
the Victims Compensation Program and we will send you a postage paid envelope to mail your application
and/or bills.
If you receive more crime-related bills in the future, please make sure that you send them to us at the address on
the first page of this application.
Keep this page for your records.

I. Victim Information
Victim’s Name:
Mailing Address:
City or Town:
State:

Zip:

Home phone:

Work phone:

Cell phone:

Email Address:

If you do not want us to contact you at the above address, please provide another mailing address and
phone number:

If the victim is a minor:

 Parent or 

Legal Guardian’s name:

Parent/Guardian date of birth:
Home phone:
Cell phone:

Work phone:
Email address:

If address is different from victim’s address:

If in DCF (Dept. of Children & Families) custody, case worker’s name:

If the victim is deceased:
Survivor’s name:
Mailing Address:
City or town:
State:

Zip:

Home phone:

Work phone:

Cell phone:

Email Address:

Survivor’s Date of birth:
Relationship to victim:
Pg. 1

II. Information about the Crime
Please complete as much of the following information as you can. If you do not have this information, leave the
space blank, and we will try to obtain the documentation from the police or your Victim Advocate.
Date of Crime:

Date reported:

Name(s) of suspect(s):
Date of birth of suspect(s):
Town where crime occurred:
Police department reported to:
Name of police officer:
Incident number:
Type of crime: (check all that apply)
 Arson

 Assault

 Burglary

 Child physical abuse/neglect
 Child pornography

 Child sexual abuse

 Domestic violence
 DUI (Driving under influence of intoxicating liquor or other substance)
 Fraud/financial crimes

 Homicide

 Human trafficking

 Kidnapping

 Other vehicular crimes  Robbery

 Sexual assault

 Stalking

 Terrorism

 Other
Are you represented by a private attorney in a civil lawsuit or insurance action regarding
this crime?

 Yes

✔ No


Attorney’s name:
Email:

Phone:

III. Requests for Compensation
Please complete as much of the following information as you can. If you do not have this information,
leave the space blank.
I am requesting compensation for the following crime-related losses:
 Child care
 Counseling
 Crime scene clean-up
Pg. 2

 Dental

 Eyeglasses, hearing aids, dentures, or any
prosthetic device taken, lost, destroyed
during the crime

 Boarding of pets

 Funeral costs

 Rent/relocation

 Loss of support

 Safety/security

 Lost wages (time missed from work)

 Temporary living expenses

 Medical

 Travel expenses/transportation costs

 Mileage/gas

 Other:

 Payment of bills for pets that are injured or
killed during the crime

 Please send any crime-related bills that you receive to the Victims Compensation Program. Please
indicate the name and phone number of the provider(s) that you are seeing for crime related
treatment below:
Dentist:

Phone:

Doctor:

Phone:

Hospital:

Phone:

Counselor:

Phone:

Funeral Home:

Phone:

Insurance Information:
Does the victim have health insurance? Yes

 No

If yes, name of insurance company:
 Medicaid

Medicare

MVP

 Other:

 Blue Cross/Blue Shield

Cigna

Insurance ID #:

Does the parent, guardian or survivor have health insurance?

Yes

No

If yes, name of insurance company:
 Medicaid

Medicare

 MVP

 Other:

Blue Cross/Blue Shield

Cigna

Insurance ID #:

Employer Name: __________________________________________________
Address:
City/Town:

State:

Phone:

Employer Email:

Name of contact person at work:

Pg. 3

Zip:

Due to the crime, I have missed work for the following:
Date(s) Missed:

Reason:

1.

1.

2.

2.

3.

3.

4.

4.

PLEASE BE ADVISED: IF YOU ARE ASKING FOR COMPENSATION FOR LOST WAGES
(TIME MISSED FROM WORK), WE WILL CONTACT YOUR EMPLOYER.
Were you paid for time missed from work?

Yes No

 If you miss work in the future due to crime-related reasons, please contact us with the additional dates.

IV. Optional Information
Where did you hear about the Victims Compensation Program?

 Counselor
 Department of Children and Families
 Victim Advocate
 Hospital
 Police
 TV
 Internet
 Radio
 Organization serving person with a disability
 Other (please specify)__________________________________

Pg. 4

The following information is optional and requested to comply with federal regulations,
and is for statistical purposes only.
Race/Ethnicity: (self-reported)
 American Indian or Alaska Native
 Asian
 Black or African American
 Hispanic or Latino
 Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander
 White-Non-Latino or Caucasian
 Another Race
 Multiple Races
Gender: (self-reported) Male Female Self Identify:
In order to better assist you, do you need accommodations for any of the following:
(Optional)
 Visual Disability
 Deaf or Hard of Hearing
 Physical Disability
 Mental Health Diagnosis
 Intellectual Disability
Please identify disability if not listed above:
Please let us know what accommodation(s) you would like us to provide:
 American Sign Language Interpretation


 Language Interpretation

Large Printed Materials

 Communication Assistance (Please specify):
Other Please specify:

Each county has a Victim Advocate located in the State’s Attorney’s Office. We encourage you
to call your Advocate with any questions you may have about the court process. For information
on how to contact your Advocate, call the Victims Compensation Program at
1-800-750-1213 (Voice–VT only)
or 1-802-241-1250 (Voice)

Pg. 5

Continue to Next Page

You must sign and date in the three (3) places that follow to be eligible for Victims
Compensation.
AUTHORIZATION TO OBTAIN INFORMATION
I hereby voluntarily authorize, in accordance with the privacy regulations under HIPAA (the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act, 42USC § 132d et seq.) any hospital, clinic, physician, health care provider or
other person who attended or examined the victim named below; any funeral director, insurance company,
counselor, attorney or other person who rendered related services; any employer of the victim or claimant; any
police or governmental agency, including state or federal revenue services; or any organization having relevant
knowledge, to furnish the Vermont Victims Compensation Program with any and all information in their possession
with respect to the incident that is the basis for this claim. A photocopy of this authorization is as effective and
valid as the original unless otherwise required by law. Further release of this information is prohibited. I understand
that this authorization will expire one year from the date of this authorization unless I otherwise specify.
I further understand that I may revoke this authorization at any time by notifying the Victims Compensation
Program in writing, except to the extent it has already been relied upon.
Alternative expiration date if desired:
Victim’s name:
Signature of victim or survivor:

Date of birth:
Date:

Signature of parent or guardian, if victim is under 18:
Date:
REPAYMENT, RESTITUTION, AND SUBROGATION AGREEMENT
I understand, on behalf of myself, assignee, heir, or dependent, that Vermont law requires me to contact and
repay the Victims Compensation Program if I receive payments from the offender, a civil action, or an
insurance company, and that the Victims Compensation Program has a lien against any monies I may recover
as a result of this crime. I also understand that I must notify the Program if I hire a lawyer to represent me in
any action related to this crime. I understand that my signature indicates that I agree with all statements specified
in this agreement.
Victim’s name:
Signature of victim or survivor:

Date of birth:
Date:

Signature of parent or guardian, if victim is under 18:
Date:

CERTIFICATION
I certify that the information in this application is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
Signature of victim or survivor:
Signature of parent or guardian, if victim is under 18:
Date:

Pg. 6

Date:

