Frequently Asked Questions | Vermont Center for Crime Victim Services Skip to main content Home About Us Victims Compensation Frequently Asked Questions Eligibility Application & Forms Policies Statutes Sexual Assault Program Restitution Grants Training and Outreach Crime Victim Advisors Resources and Other Help Frequently Asked Questions Victims Compensation FAQs Does insurance or other sources of payment have to be used? Yes. Insurance must be billed first. Here is a list of some insurances that must be considered: Health insurance Dental insurance Vision insurance Auto insurance Homeowner's or renter's insurance Civil lawsuit Worker's compensation Disability insurance How long does it take for a claim to be approved? It depends on how long it takes us to verify the losses. How will the money be received? Payment will go to the victim or directly to their service provider. What happens when an application is received? The application is assigned to a Claims Specialist who will follow up with the victim. If there are outstanding crime related bills, please send them with the application. What if the crime occurs outside of Vermont? Every state has a Victims Compensation Program. If the crime is in another state, the victim must apply to the Compensation Program in that state. The Office for Victims of Crime has a map of the different state Victims Compensation Programs. What is restitution? When an offender is required by the court to pay you or the Victims Compensation Program back for the uninsured losses the victim incurred from the crime. The suspect must be sentenced for the crime in order for restitution to be ordered. What is the maximum amount allowed per eligible Compensation Claim? $10,000. The Victims Compensation Program decides what losses are covered. Some caps may apply. What makes an application eligible? The crime has been reported to a law enforcement officer, who must conclude that a crime was committed The victim has suffered physical injury or emotional harm as a direct result of a crime The crime was committed in Vermont, or was committed against a Vermont resident in a country that does not have a Compensation Program The crime was committed after July 1, 1987 The victim did not violate a criminal law of this state which caused or contributed to his or her injuries or death Family members of a homicide victim are also eligible Please visit our Eligibility page for information. What might delay a claim? If an application is not signed and dated in the appropriate places. Or, if there is not proper verification. When would an application be denied? If a victim violated a criminal law of Vermont that caused the victim's injuries or death at the time of the crime. Who is considered a crime victim? A person who has experienced emotional harm, physical harm, or death as the direct result of a crime that happened in Vermont; or a crime was committed against a Vermont resident in a state or country that does not have a Compensation Program. Click this button to leave the website immediately. Note that this does not remove site history.