80-001 Code Vt. R. 80-220-001-X - ADMINISTRATIVE RULES AND REGULATIONS | State Regulations | US Law | LII / Legal Information Institute Please help us improve our site! × No thank you 80-001 Code Vt. R. 80-220-001-X - ADMINISTRATIVE RULES AND REGULATIONS State Regulations Compare VERMONT VICTIMS COMPENSATION PROGRAM 114 MAIN STREET, MONTPELIER, VT. 05602 TELEPHONE 828-3374 ADMINISTRATIVE RULES AND REGULATIONS SCOPE OF RULES. The following rules shall constitute the
				  practice to be followed in all proceedings before the Vermont Victims
				  Compensation Board. LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION OF PROVISIONS. These rules shall be
				  liberally construed by the Board to permit it to discharge its statutory
				  function and secure equitable determinations in all matters before the
				  Board. PRACTICE WHERE RULES DO NOT GOVERN. The Board may rescind,
				  amend or expand these rules from time to time, provided the same is effected in
				  accordance with the provisions of the Vermont Administrative Procedure Act. In
				  any matter not expressly governed by these rules or by statute, the Board shall
				  exercise its discretion. VALIDITY OF RULES IF ANY PORTION DECLARED INVALID. If any
				  portion of these rules, or the application thereof, shall be declared to be
				  invalid, or inoperative, or if by statutory amendment any rules shall lose its
				  force and effect, such judgment or amendment shall not affect, impair or void
				  the remainder of these rules. Section
				5351 DEFINITIONS as used in this 13.V.S.A. Chapter 167, are hereby
				  adopted by this Board and incorporated by reference in these rules. Section 5352 VICTIMS COMPENSATION
				BOARD 1. The Board is established for the
				purpose of awarding compensation to victims of crimes and to their
				dependents. 2. The Board shall
				consist of five members appointed by the governor - one physician licensed to practice in this state - one attorney admitted to practice in this state - one individual who is a crime victim - two public members 3. Each member shall serve for a term of
				three years. Initial terms of members of the Board may be less than three years
				to insure that no more than one term expires in any given year. A reappointment
				and/or a vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment
				for the remainder of an unexpired term. 4. The Board shall function
				independently. 5. The Board shall
				provide application forms and other information which local law enforcement
				agencies may require to comply with this section. The program strives to
				promote victim cooperation with the reasonable requests of law enforcement
				authorities. Section
				5353 ELIGIBILITY FOR COMPENSATION A. A victim or a dependent of a victim shall
				be eligible for compensation when: 1. A law
				enforcement official has filed a report concluding that a crime was committed
				which resulted in the injury or death of the victim; and 2. The crime was committed in this state;
				or 3. The victim is a Vermont
				resident, the state in which the crime occurred does not have an eligible crime
				victim's compensation program and the applicant would have been eligible for
				compensation under this chapter if the crime had been committed in this
				state. B. Victims of
				crimes subject to federal jurisdiction, and their dependents, shall be eligible
				for compensation on the same basis as victims of state crimes. C. An application for compensation shall be
				made on the form prescribed by the Board and signed by the claimant which
				includes an authorization for securing medical and other necessary records, and
				a subrogation agreement. D. In any
				case in which the person entitled to compensation under this chapter is a minor
				or is mentally incompetent or unable to apply because of his or her physical
				condition, the application may be made on the person's behalf by a parent,
				spouse, guardian or other person responsible for the victim's
				welfare. E. In any case in which a
				victim otherwise eligible for compensation under this chapter dies without
				making an application, the Board may award medical or medically-related
				expenses to the victim's estate providing the executor, administrator or person
				responsible for the estate has applied in accordance to Sec. C. F. The Board may award funeral expenses to
				the next of kin of a deceased victim who is not survived by a
				dependent. G. A victim or a
				dependent of a victim shall be eligible for compensation for pecuniary losses
				sustained as a result of a crime which occurred after July 1,1987 if the losses
				occurred on or after July 1, 1990. H. A victim who is under the age of 18 at the
				time the application for compensation is filed shall be eligible for
				compensation for pecuniary losses sustained as a result of a crime, no matter
				when the crime occurred, if the losses occurred on or after July 1,
				1990. I. It will be the duty of the
				victim to report change of address, court action, and other information
				pertinent to their claim. Section
				5354 REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS The Board shall review applications and shall consider all
				  relevant information presented to the board to determine whether compensation
				  should be awarded under this chapter. The Board has the right to request
				  additional information that is deemed necessary. The Board shall meet once a
				  month to review and to determine awards. The Board shall render its decision
				  regarding the application within three months of receipt of all necessary
				  information to determine a final judgment in the matter. Section 5355 (A) . APPROVAL OF APPLICATION After review of
				the evidence relevant to the application for compensation, the Board shall
				approve the application if a preponderance of the evidence (51%) shows that as
				a direct result of the crime an injury death occurred that resulted in a
				pecuniary loss to the victim or the dependent. (B) . REJECTION OF APPLICATION: An
				application for assistance shall be denied if any of the following apply: 1) the application was not made within the
				period of time permitted for commencing prosecution of the crime. The Board may
				extend the time for filing for good cause shown. 2) the victim violated a criminal law of this
				state which caused or contributed to the victim's injuries or death. 3) provisions of 5353 have not been met. If the Board denies an application, the Board shall send the
				  applicant written notice of the decision personally or by certified mail. The
				  notice shall include a statement of the reasons for the action and shall advise
				  the applicant that he/she may file a petition with the Board for review of its
				  preliminary decision within 30 days of the date on which the notice is mailed.
				  After the hearing, the Board shall affirm or reverse the preliminary denial,
				  explaining reasons in writing. The decision of the Board shall be
				  final. Section
				5356 AMOUNT OF COMPENSATION If the application is approved, the Board shall authorize
				  cash payments to medical care providers, mental health providers, funeral
				  providers, to the victim or dependents of the victim not to exceed $ 10,000,
				  equal to the unreimbursed pecuniary loss directly resulting from the injury or
				  death of the victim. Payments will be made within 45 days after the final
				  decision of the Board. An award for compensation may be made whether or not any
				  person is prosecuted or convicted for the crime giving rise to the claim before
				  the Board. A) Emergency Advance can be
				made during the period of time a claim is pending approval by the full Board
				where such grants could help a victim maintain a reasonable level of health or
				safety for herself/himself or dependents and prevent financial hardship. - The Board shall determine an amount to be issued by the
				  Executive Director when the preponderance of credible evidence shows the need
				  for such an Emergency Advance. - Any emergency advances made to a claimant shall be deducted
				  from the final amount of compensation awarded to said claimant. B) Medical or medically related
				expenses may include, but are not limited to: -the costs for mental health services by eligible providers
				  as established by the policy of the Board -alternative health care providers who are regulated by the
				  State or referred by a licensed physician -the costs of purchasing eyeglasses, hearing aids, dentures
				  or any prosthetic devices which were taken, lost or destroyed during the
				  commission of the crime or became necessary as the result of the crime -rehabilitation services, supported residential services,
				  respite care services, attendant care services or other remedial treatment and
				  care not to exceed the usual and customary rates -occupational therapy, physical therapy, speech therapy not
				  to exceed the usual and customary rates -transportation for medical/mental health treatment. C) Exhaustion of the fund during
				current fiscal year shall result in the Board holding back payment of
				compensable expenses until adequate funding is received. - Priority will be given first to claims already approved by
				  the Board who continue to need reimbursement for medical, mental health
				  services or lost wages and have not exceeded the maximum award. - Claims for new awards shall be approved according to the
				  order in which they are completed. D) Pursuant to policy adopted by the Board,
				caps shall exist within the $ 10,000 maximum award for the following expenses
				to insure fair and uniform coverage of expenses for all victims of crime: - Mental Health Claims shall not exceed $ 3,000.00 or the
				  amount recommended by the provider in their Treatment Plan, whichever is less.
				  If costs exceed this amount an evaluation of treatment will be required. -Lost Wages must be equal to victim's net salary at time of
				  injury but not greater than $ 1,500; if more than one month of wages are lost a
				  physician's statement is required with estimated date of return; if self
				  employed, copy of last year's tax forms or copies of current financial
				  statements must be submitted; failure to report the earnings upon which the
				  loss is based to state and federal revenue departments as required by law will
				  result in the claim being denied. - Funeral Expenses shall not exceed the cap determined by the
				  Board. Extenuating circumstances in excess of this amount will be considered by
				  the Board. - Temporary Living Expenses shall be paid to the dependent of
				  a victim who has died as a result of a crime if demonstration of financial
				  hardship is apparent. An award for the cost of actual living expenses shall not
				  exceed $ 1,500 a month for up to three months. The Board, however, reserves the
				  right to exceed this amount if it deems necessary. (The Board shall periodically review caps to insure
				  that they are in accordance with CPI. cost or living, etc., and correspond with
				  the services provided to victims. Reviews will be at least on a yearly
				  basis.) Section
				5357 SUBROGATION; LIEN; DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS The Vermont Victims Compensation Program shall be subrogated
				  to the rights of the victim or dependent to whom cash payments are granted to
				  the extent of the cash payments awarded, less the amount of any fine imposed by
				  the court on the perpetrator of the crime. Such subrogation rights shall be
				  against the perpetrator of the crime or any person liable for the pecuniary
				  loss. Notes 80 - 001 Code Vt. R. 80-220-001-X State regulations are updated quarterly; we currently have two versions available.
                        Below is a comparison between our most recent version and the prior quarterly release. More comparison features will be added as we have more versions to compare. No prior version found. State Regulations Toolbox