Safe at Home Address Confidentiality Program | Secretary of State Skip to main content Program Forms Change of Information Form Cancellation of Participation Form Learn more about Vermont's Safe at Home program: Resources Victim Connect Resource Map National Center for Victims of Crime Vermont Center for Crime Victim Services Safe at Home Address Confidentiality Program Want to become a participant? Sign Up Now Already a participant? Sign In Escape to Weather.gov Safe at Home provides an address confidentiality service and a protected records service. The program serves survivors of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, human trafficking, providers of legally protected healthcare (reproductive and gender-affirming care), and patients of legally protected healthcare. These services limit a perpetrator or harasser’s ability to access public information that could identify the location of a program participant. This is not a witness protection program, rather it is a mail forwarding service. Eligibility Requirements An applicant must meet the following eligibility requirements: You are a survivor of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking or human trafficking or a person providing or seeking reproductive or gender affirming health care services. You are a resident of and reside in the state of Vermont. You are an adult, emancipated minor, or a parent or guardian acting on behalf of a minor or an incapacitated person. You are willing to designate the Secretary of State as your agent to receive legal documents and first-class mail. Can accept to a 7 day mail delay to allow for mail forwarding. To benefit from the Safe at Home program, we recommend that participants have an address that is recent and where there is not an existing government record. Ready to apply? Apply Now Find an Applicant Assistant Some applicants find it helpful to use an Applicant Assistant. This is not a requirement to participate in the program. Locate the nearest survivor advocate using the list below or call 800-439-8683 . Interested in becoming an Applicant Assistant? Visit our Applicant Assistant Program page to learn more. Counties Served Agency City/Town Phone Website Addison Atria Collective (formerly WomenSafe, Inc.) Middlebury 800-388-4205 800-253-0191 TTY https://www.atriavt.org/ Bennington PAVE Bennington 802-442-2370 https://pavebennington.org/ Caledonia, Essex & Orleans Umbrella St. Johnsbury Newport 802-748-8645 802-334-0148 https://www.umbrellanek.org/ Caledonia, Orleans & Washington AWARE Hardwick 802-472-6463 https://www.awarevt.org/ Chittenden HOPE Works Burlington 802-863-1236 https://hopeworksvt.org/ Chittenden SafeSpace Anti-Violence Program Burlington (802) 863-0003 https://www.safespacevt.org/ Chittenden Steps to End Domestic Violence Burlington 802-658-3131 802-658-1996 https://www.stepsvt.org/ Franklin & Grand Isle Voices Against Violence St. Albans 802-524-6575 https://www.voicesagainstviolence.org/ Lamoille Clarina Howard Nichols Center Morrisville 802-888-5256 https://clarina.org/ Orange & Windsor Safeline Randolph 800-6397233 https://www.safelinevt.org/ Orange & Windsor WISE Lebanon, NH 603-448-5922 https://wiseuv.org/ Rutland New Story Center Rutland 802-775-6788 https://www.nscvt.org/ Washington Circle Barre 877-543-9498 https://www.circlevt.org/ Washington MOSAIC Montpelier 802-479-5577 https://mosaic-vt.org/ Windham & Windsor Women's Freedom Center Brattleboro 802-254-6594 802-885-2050 https://womensfreedomcenter.net/ Program Overview Safe at Home has two components: a substitute address service and a protected records service. These services limit a perpetrator or harasser’s ability to access public information that could identify the new location of a survivor who is in the program. This is not a witness protection program, rather it is a mail forwarding service. Substitute Address Service Participants are granted the use of a Montpelier post office box address. The substitute address has no relation to the participant’s actual address. All participants use the same post office box as designated by the program. First-class mail and service of process is sent to the post office box and then forwarded, at no cost, to the participant’s actual location. Protected Records Service Safe at Home allows participants to use the substitute address when creating records with state or local government agencies. Program participants can vote (as a blind ballot absentee voter), obtain a driver’s license, get married, and register births without fear that those records will put them at risk of being located. The program cannot protect the identity or address of a participant in a real estate transaction because land records are open to the public. It is recommended that participants explore alternate methods of purchasing property such as setting up a trust. Participant Responsibilities Safe at Home staff will review the properly completed application and certify an applicant as a program participant for four years and issue a Safe at Home authorization card. The authorization card contains an authorization number unique to each program participant. When using the substitute address, the authorization number must be included in the address. Because mail for all participants comes to the same post office box, the authorization code is an important identifying item and helps to expedite the mail forwarding process. Once accepted into the program, participants should use the substitute address when creating records and accessing services with state and local government agencies. The Safe at Home authorization card should be presented to an agency when requesting the use of the substitute address. Participants are required to notify the Safe at Home office of any changes in name, address, or phone number in order to remain in the program. Government Agency Responsibilities State and local government agencies must accept the Safe at Home substitute address for any public record unless the agency has received prior approval from the Office of the Secretary of State for a waiver or statutory exception. Agency employees may request verification of program participation by asking for the participant’s authorization card. A photocopy of the authorization card may be placed in the participant’s agency file and shall serve as the participant’s address and confirmation of Safe at Home program participation. The authorization card is not a legal form of identification. Victim Connect Resource Map Domestic Violence Hotline: 1-800-228-7395 Sexual Violence Hotline: 1-800-489-7273 Election Info & Resources Secretary's Desk Enterprise Repositories & Systems