Hawaii Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) – Department of Law Enforcement Skip to main content Enable accessibility for low vision Open the accessibility menu Skip to Main Content Home / Resources / Hawaii Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) What is Hawaii ACP? The Hawaii Address Confidentiality Program is a free resource that helps to protect survivors of domestic abuse, sexual offenses, and stalking. The program enables participants to use a substitute address in place of their residential, work, and school addresses with state and county government agencies. Hawaii ACP can be a useful part of a survivor’s comprehensive safety plan. Who is Eligible? Applicants must meet the following criteria: Survivor of domestic abuse, a sexual offense, or stalking. Resides, or will reside within 30 days, in the State of Hawaii at an address unknown to their assailants How to Apply Applicants do not apply directly with DLE.  Applicants must meet with a designated application assistant from an ACP certified victim services organization. Application assistants will discuss ACP guidelines, help applicants complete a program application, and send completed applications to ACP. ACP Services Upon approval, participants will receive an ACP authorization card and can start to request that state and county agencies use their substitute address. ACP Authorization Card Participants may present their ACP authorization card to state or county agencies to request that the agency use the substitute mailing address in place of the participant’s actual address. Mail Forwarding ACP will receive participants’ first-class, certified, and registered mail at the substitute address and forward it to the participant at their actual address. Service of Process ACP accepts service of process documents for participants, deeming them served. Learn More For more information, please contact ACP at: Phone: 808-587-5054 Email: LAW.AddressConfidentiality@hawaii.gov Hawaii ACP is administered in accordance with Hawaii Revised Statutes, Chapter 801G and Hawaii Administrative Rules, Chapter 24-1000 (808) 587-5054 | LAW.AddressConfidentiality@hawaii.gov