Wisconsin Department of Justice
            
            
            Safe at Home Address Confidentiality Program Skip to main content Safe at Home Address Confidentiality Program Content_Area1 ​ ​​​​​​​​​​ To contact Safe at Home, please call 608-266-6613 or email safeathome@wisdoj.gov .​ Safe at Home is an address confidentiality program that provides victims of domestic abuse, child abuse, sexual abuse, stalking, trafficking, or those who simply fear for their physical safety with a legal substitute address (assigned addre​ss) for both public and private use. Safe at Home is governed by Wisconsin Statute §​ 165.68​ . Enrollment in Safe at Home allows a participant to use and receive mail at an assigned address in lieu of their actual address. Safe at Home forwards mail from the assigned address to the participant's actual address at no cost. The intent of Safe at Home is for a participant to be able to maintain a private, confidential address and gain some peace of mind. Safe at Home is one of many tools that an individual can choose as part of their overall safety plan.​​​​ To learn more about Safe at Home, please watch this informational video. ​ ​ Application Ass​istants Use of Assigned Addr​​ess ​ Serving Legal Paperwork ​ ​ Eligibility & Enrollment in Safe at Home​​​​​​​​​ Eligibility A person is eligible to participate in the Safe at Home program if they : reside in Wisconsin; are a victim of abuse, a parent or guardian of a person who is a victim of abuse, reside in a household in which a victim of abuse also resides, OR they fear for their physical safety; reside at a location that is unknown to the person they are in fear of; and will not disclose their actual address to the person they are in fear of. Enrollment Individuals intending to enroll in Safe at Home must first participate in safety planning with an Application Assistant. Application Assistants are victim service providers, advocates, and other professionals designated by Safe at Home to provide safety planning services and assist in the completion of an application. Please contact Safe at Home directly to find a designated Application Assistant in your area or find a list of agencies with ​ designated a​pplication assistants here. ​ After creating a safety plan with a designated Application Assistant, an individual may submit an application for enrollment in Safe at Home. After reviewing the application, a Safe at Home Victim Services Specialist will contact the applicant to discuss eligibility and the enrollment process. To enroll, please download and complete an application: Safe at Home Application Solicitud en esp​añol Daim ntawv thov lus Hmoob ​ A completed application may be faxed to Safe at Home's secure fax at (608) 261-8660 or mailed to Safe at Home, PO BOX 7035, Madison, WI 53707. Please call 608-266-6613 to confirm a faxed application was received. Do not use email to submit your application. PLEASE NOTE: Home ownership can pose unique challenges to participation in Safe at Home​. If you currently own or have immediate plans to purchase the property you are seeking to keep confidential, please contact Safe at Home at (608) 266-6613 to discuss other safety planning options that may be available to you.​​​ Content_Area2 ​​ ​Crime Victim Services Programs All Crime Victim Services Victim & Witness Rights Information for Victims and Survivors of Crime Crime Victim Compensation (CVC) Program Crime Victims Rights Board Safe at Home: Address Confidentiality Program Sexual Assault Forensic Exam (SAFE) Fund Crime Victim Taskforces & Initiatives Information for Victim Services Professionals Forensic Nursing Program ​ Back to top button