Wisconsin Department of Justice
            
            
            Crime Victim Compensation FAQs Skip to main content Crime Victim Compensation FAQs Content_Area1 ​​​​​​​​​​ Applying and Eligibility ​  | Compensation | Medical​ Treatment/Couns​eling | ​ ​ ​ ​Restitution/CVC​ ​​ Applying and Eligibility What do I need to send with the application? You do not need to send anything with the application but be sure to sign the application and provide all information requested. If you have already received medical bills, you may enclose itemized copies of them with your application form. The Program will contact you for further information to support your claim. The program relies on police reports that are requested directly from law enforcement agencies. You do not need to provide them. What are the eligibility requirements? To be eligible for the Crime Victim Compensation Program, you must be an innocent victim of crime or a family member of an innocent homicide victim. The victim's conduct must not have caused or contributed to the incident; The victim must not have committed a crime that led to the incident; The victim must cooperate with law enforcement and with the Wisconsin Department of Justice, Office of Crime Victim Services in supplying requested information; If the victim is listed on the Wisconsin Child Support Lien Docket, the victim must provide a copy of his/her alternative payment agreement that has been approved by the county child support agency; The incident must be reported to the police within 5 days of the crime, or within 5 days of the date the crime could reasonably have been reported (this time limit may be waived, in the interest of justice); The application must be received within one year of the incident. If the victim was injured in a car accident caused by a drunk driver, the victim must have been a pedestrian or a passenger in another vehicle, a child passenger in the offender's vehicle, or unaware that the offending driver was under the influence of alcohol or an illegal drug. If it has been over one year since the incident occurred, can I still apply? By statute, the crime victim compensation application must be filed with the Department of Justice within 1 year of the date of the crime. However, there are circumstances in which this requirement may be waived. If the application is not filed within 1 year, attach a written statement explaining the reason for the delay. Do not wait until court is over or until medical treatment is completed to send in your application.​​ If a family member was a victim of a homicide, should all surviving family members fill out an application? A family member, household member or domestic partner may file an application.  If other survivors want to apply for crime victim compensation, they should contact the Office of Crime Victim Services to request a family/household member application. If I don’t want to go to court and prosecute the offender, can CVC pay for my bills? Generally, no. The Program requires that victims cooperate with the prosecution of the offender including asking for restitution. If there is a health or safety concern, this requirement may be waived. Compensation Can I get paid for pain and suffering? The Crime Victim Compensation Program does not pay for pain and suffering. The police took my cell phone and/or computer, can CVC send me money to replace those items? The Program may compensate up to $200 for the reasonable replacement of any computer or mobile telephone held as evidence by law enforcement. Can I get paid for mileage to appointments or court appearances and get paid for time off work for these events? The Program cannot reimburse for mileage or for time off of work for scheduled appointments or court appearances. I had car insurance but they aren’t paying for a while since my attorney is working on the case. Can CVC pay me anyway? No, we must subtract any money paid (or TO BE paid) on a claim. That means if there is a motor vehicle insurance settlement and/or civil suit pending, the Program routinely waits for the conclusion of the civil action before making payments. Some exceptions may be made for emergency situations. Can I be paid for lost wages if I was paid in cash? No, all lost wage claims must be documented through an employer verification form, paycheck stubs or income tax returns. If my employer already paid me through vacation pay or sick leave, may I still be paid crime victim compensation? No, the Program must deduct all money paid for losses. Do I need a doctor’s excuse if I missed work? No. The Program may cover up to two weeks of lost wages without a physician certifying the absence. Wage loss beyond two weeks must be documented as a disability by a physician. Can CVC pay for the difference between my usual take-home wages and the amount I am now receiving in disability pay or worker’s compensation? Yes – with proper documentation. What is this Physician Certification Form and what do I do with it? The form gives the program information about your treatment or disability. Give it to your treating physician to complete. Can I get paid for lost wages if my child was injured as a result of a crime? Yes. Parents of minor victims may be paid up to $3,000 (per parent) for lost wages. Additionally, regardless of the victim's age, family members of homicide victims may be reimbursed for lost wages. Medical Treatment/Counseling Can CVC just send the checks to me and I’ll pay the medical providers? No, the Program pays the medical providers directly because we have a crime victims discount with many of the providers. We may send reimbursement checks to applicants if they have paid costs out of pocket already and have documented their payments. They should send in canceled checks or itemized bills/receipts showing their payments. I sent in a collection notice, is that enough? Why do I need to get an itemized bill? The Program requires complete itemized bills for all medical, dental, funeral and counseling costs. The itemized bill provides information needed to determine the charges were crime-related, the balances due, the account numbers and the address where to send the payment. However, a collection notice may be helpful information. Do I have to submit bills to my insurance? Yes, this Program is considered the last payer, by law. This means all insurances; public funding like Medical Assistance, Badger Care, Medicare, etc. must be billed first. The Program may pay co-pays due by the patient and costs denied by insurance. The Program will need documentation of all payments and/or denials. ​​​ Can parents be paid for counseling costs if they are being seen in addition to the victim? Yes. The Program may pay up to $3,000 (per parent) for counseling expenses incurred by parents of minor victims. Additionally, regardless of the victim's age, family members of homicide victims may be eligible for counseling expenses. What do I need to do to get counseling paid for? Is there a limit to how long I can be treated? The Program requires that your therapist complete an authorization form, which gives a diagnosis, treatment plan and estimated length of treatment. After that information is reviewed, the Program may determine what amount of counseling may be covered. The Program requires an authorization update form to be completed if treatment extends beyond 6 months. ​ Restitution and CVC What is the difference between restitution and compensation? Restitution is ordered by the judge (court) at sentencing when an offender has been convicted of a crime. The offender is responsible to pay restitution if ordered by the court. Crime Victim Compensation is a fund available to assist eligible crime victims with their allowable expenses that are the result of a crime. The CVC program works with the courts regarding restitution. CVC can pay for losses immediately, and then ask the court to order restitution be paid back to CVC for what the program has already paid on behalf of the victim. If restitution is ordered to me, why should I apply for CVC? Offenders may be ordered to pay restitution, but may be unable to pay for a variety of reasons. By applying for compensation, if a claim is found eligible, the victim is assured of timely payment of eligible expenses. Do I have to send copies of my bills to the CVC program and to the DA’s office? In order to ensure we have all bills and insurance forms, etc., applicants must send copies of their bills and related documents directly to this Program as well as to the DA’s office if there is a pending case. Some costs can be ordered to be paid as restitution that may not be allowable to be paid by CVC. How does the DA’s office know what CVC pays on my claim? The Program informs the DA’s office of all payments made on cases. What if the offender has been ordered ​to pay my costs through restitution? If restitution is ordered and the offender is able to begin to make payments right away, the Program will not make payments. If the offender has been ordered to pay restitution but is incarcerated or unemployed, the program will make payment and inform probation and parole of our payments so the offender will be held responsible for repaying this program. ​ Content_Area2 ​Wisconsin Crime Victim Compensation Program PO Box 7951 Madison, WI 53707-7951 Toll Free (800) 446-6564 Fax (608) 264-6368 Email ocvs@wisdoj.gov ​ ​ Back to top button