Wisconsin Department of Justice
            
            
            Crime Victim Compensation Program Skip to main content Crime Victim Compensation Program Content_Area1 ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​ ​Compensation for Your Financial Losses Victims of violent crime and family or household members of deceased victims may have significant out-of-pocket expenses through no fault of their own. Crime Victim Compensation (CVC) helps pay for unreimbursed eligible expenses that result from the crime. Due​ to the high volume of applications r​eceived, the intake process can take 90-120 days. ​​​​ Who may be eligible? An innocent victim who suffers injury from a compensable crime as identified by law. A dependent or family member of an innocent victim who has been killed as a result of a compensable crime. A person who is injured while aiding a crime victim or helping a police officer. A person who suffers a reaction from the homicide of a family or household member. A person injured in a car accident caused by an intoxicated driver, who was: A pedestrian or a passenger in the other car. A child passenger in the offender's car. Unaware that the driver was under the influence of alcohol or an illegal drug.​ What must I do to be eligible? The victim's conduct must not have caused or contributed to the victim's death or injury. The victim must not have committed a crime that led to the injury or death. The crime must be reported to law enforcement within five days of the crime or within five days of when the crime could reasonably have been reported. This time limit may be waived in the interest of justice. The victim must cooperate with law enforcement officials in their investigation and prosecution of the crime. This requirement may be waived in the interest of justice for a compelling health or safety reason. The applicant must file a claim within one year of the date of the crime. This time limit may be waived in the interest of justice. Adults who were the victim of a crime as a child may apply. If the victim is listed on the statewide child support lien docket, certain requirements must be met in order to become eligible. The applicant must cooperate with the Wisconsin Department of Justice by supplying requested information in a timely manner. What compensation may be paid? The State of Wisconsin pays up to $40,000 and for up to four years of out-of-pocket expenses that are not paid or payable by a collateral source, including but not limited to private or group insurance plan, public funds, or any other source, including payments made by the offender. Eligible expenses include: Medical, hospital, surgical, pharmacy, and mental health counseling expenses.If you have medical coverage through another source for the payment of your medical or mental health expenses, you must be treated by a provider who accepts that source of payment. Lost wages for medical or  mental health disability. Loss of support to a dependent of a crime victim who is killed. Reasonable replacement costs of clothing or bedding held as evidence- up to $300. Reasonable replacement value of any computer or mobile telephone held as evidence- up to $200. Reasonable replacement value of property held as evidence and rendered unusable by crime lab testing- up to $200. Reasonable and necessary costs for securing and cleaning a crime scene- up to $1,000. Cost of caregiver services. Reasonable funeral expenses- up to $5,000. Expenses related to mental health treatment and work loss for a parent of a minor victim- up to $3,000 per parent. Reasonable and necessary housing adaptations if the victim suffered a protracted disability- up to $5,000. Please note: Property loss or damage is not covered other than those items described above. A victim is not eligible for Crime Victim Compensation if only property damage or loss occurred. How will my claim be processed? Once your application has been received, CVC will request the law enforcement investigative report from the law enforcement agency. CVC will use the law enforcement report and your application to determine if your claim is eligible. The time it takes to determine eligibility varies considerably, depending on the complexity of the claim. Due to the high volume of applications received, the intake process can take anywhere from 90-120 days or longer. You will receive written confirmation and direction regarding the next steps in the processing of your application, as well as the name of your claim specialist. Submitting all requested materials to the Wisconsin Department of Justice in a timely manner will help facilitate the processing of your claim. For eligible claims, payments will begin as soon as all necessary information has been submitted and reviewed. For ineligible claims, a written denial decision and explanation of the appeal procedure will be mailed. What crimes are typically co​vered? ​​Crime Victim Compensation may provide financial help to victims of crimes that are compensable according to Wisconsin law and who meet the eligibility requirements listed above. Examples of compensable crimes include: Homicide Injury by intoxicated use  of a vehicle Battery Child abuse Sexual Assault Stalking Victims of compensable crimes must have experienced a personal injury , which is defined by Wisconsin law as actual bodily harm, including pregnancy and mental or psychological trauma. The program cannot assist with most property loss . The complete list of Compensable Crimes ​​ as defined in Wisconsin law.​ ​​​ Frequently Asked Questions​ Crime Victims Compensation Application ​​ Crime Victims Compensable Crimes​​ ​ Content_Area2 ​ ​Wisconsin Crime Victim Compensation Program PO Box 7951 Madison, WI 53707-7951 Toll Free (800) 446-6564 Fax (608) 264-6368 Email ocvs@wisdoj.gov ​ ​ ​ ​ ​Crime Victim Services Programs All Crime Victim Services Victim & Witness Rights Information for Victims and Survivors of Crime Crime Victim Compensation (CVC) Program Crime Victims Rights Board Safe at Home: Address Confidentiality Program Sexual Assault Forensic Exam (SAFE) Fund Crime Victim Taskforces & Initiatives Information for Victim Services Professionals Forensic Nursing Program ​ ​ Back to top button