Eligibility | District of Columbia Courts Eligibility A person is eligible for compensation by the Crime Victims Compensation Program if... The victim suffered personal injury (physical injury or emotional trauma) or death in the District of Columbia - or the victim is a resident of the District who has suffered personal injury as a result of a terrorist act or act of mass violence committed outside of the United States. The crime was reported to law enforcement within seven days of occurrence. Exceptions: Victims of sexual assault may satisfy the reporting requirement by getting a temporary civil protection order or civil protection order, forensic medical examination, or reporting the offense to a law enforcement office before expiration of the applicable statute of limitation for that offense. Victims of domestic violence may satisfy the reporting requirement by getting a temporary or civil protection order from the Court or forensic medical examination. Victims of child cruelty may satisfy the reporting requirement if a neglect petition is filed in the DC Superior Court. Victims of stalking may satisfy the reporting requirement by getting a temporary anti-stalking order or anti-stalking order. Application for compensation is filed within one year after the crime. Exceptions: Within one year of learning about the Program, with an adequate showing that the delay in learning of the Program was reasonable. The court may require explanation of delay in filing. There is an order for sentence modification, or There is an order modifying terms of imprisonment, or The victim reasonably cooperates with law enforcement requests. The victim did not participate in, consented to, or provoked the crime that caused his or her injury. The award of compensation does not unjustly enrich the offender. Crime Victims Compensation Program Leadership Acting Program Director LouEthel Green-Williams Location Court Building A 515 Fifth Street NW Room 109 Washington , D.C. 20001 Get directions Hours of Operation Day Hours Monday - Friday: 08:30 am-05:00 pm Saturday - Sunday: Closed Contact Info General Information phone (202) 879-4216 fax (202) 879-4230 email CVCPOffice [at] dcsc.gov Confirm translation ×