Address Confidentiality Program | ovsjg Skip to main content - A + A Services DC Victim Hotline Address Confidentiality Program Compensation for Unjust Conviction and Imprisonment District of Columbia Hospital-based Violence Intervention Program District of Columbia Sexual Assault Response Team (SART) Domestic Violence Fatality Review Board Juvenile Justice Advisory Group Language Access Program Private Security Camera System Incentive Program Sexual Assault Victims' Rights Amendment Act Victim Assistance Network Office of Victim Services and Justice Grants Office Hours Monday to Friday, 9 am to 5 pm Connect With Us 899 North Capitol Street, NE,
  Suite 4100,
  Washington,
  DC
  20002 Phone: (202) 727-0605 Fax: (202) 727-6332 TTY: 711 Email: [email protected] Ask the Director Agency Performance Mrs. Jennifer L. Porter, MPH, MCHES Director Listen Address Confidentiality Program The District’s Address Confidentiality Program (ACP), administered by the Office of Victim Services and Justice Grants (OVSJG), provides a legal substitute address for eligible DC residents to maintain the confidentiality of her or his actual address. This program helps residents who fear for their safety by shielding their street address from public records, providing one tool in an individual’s broader safety plan. How Does the ACP Work? Substitute Address Applicants who qualify receive an ACP authorization card with a substitute address. This card will be provided by the participant to any District agency in place of their real home, work, or school address. District agencies are required by law to accept the substitute address. Mail Forwarding The ACP will receive all participant first-class, certified, or registered mail and reroutes the mail to the participant’s physical address. Limitations A substitute address does not guarantee a participant’s actual address will not be required by other non-government agencies. This program does not assist with redacting public personal information. Additionally, the ACP does not forward junk mail, packages, or magazines; an advocate or application assistant can help applicants plan for safely receiving that mail. Other limitations may also apply. Who Is It For? An individual may qualify for the ACP if they: (1) Fear for their safety; (2) Currently (or will soon) reside in the District of Columbia; AND (3) Have experienced domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, or human trafficking; OR are employed by an organization whose primary purpose is serving victims who have experienced the above offenses; OR are employed by an organization that focuses on reproductive healthcare. Applicants are also required to: have moved within the past 60 days, be planning to move within the next 30 days, or have taken adequate measures to ensure their current address is not easily accessible online or through public records. Both adults and children may qualify. How to Apply Application assistants are available in several agencies across the District to answer questions, verify eligibility, and accept applications. They also can provide advocacy services and help develop a comprehensive safety plan based on individual needs. To learn more about the ACP or submit an application, reach out to an application assistant on the list below. Application Assistant List What You Need to Know When You are Meeting with an Application Assistant Guide for Applicants Guide for Applicants (Spanish) If you wish to have one on one technical assistance, please email to ask any questions you have or to request a personalized training. If you work in DC but reside in a different state, check out the programs in MD and VA . Fiscal Year 2025 Annual Report Fiscal Year 2024 Annual Report Fiscal Year 2023 Annual Report Fiscal Year 2022 Annual Report Fiscal Year 2021 Annual Report Fiscal Year 2020 Annual Report Outreach Materials: ACP Program Flyer ACP Program Flyer (Spanish) Translated Materials: Programa de confidencialidad de domicilio የአድራሻ ሚስጥራዊነት ፕሮግራም Programme de confidentialité des adresses 주소 기밀 보장 프로그램 Chương Trình Bảo Mật Địa Chỉ 地址保密计划 Attachment(s): Contact Email: Contact TTY: 711 DC Victim Hotline The DC Victim Hotline is available for all crime victims in the District of Columbia. The hotline number is 844-4-HELP-DC (844-443-5732) and is operational 24/7. The hotline victim assistance staff provides basic crisis-intervention support and helps callers access the complete continuum of care for crime victims, including relevant and appropriate resources based on the needs of the caller. Grants and Opportunities The Office of Victim Services and Justice Grants (OVSJG) awards and manages a portfolio of grants. Grants and Funding Victims' Rights District laws such as § 23-1901 - the Crime Victims' Bill of Rights ensure victims are treated with fairness and dignity. Follow Us on X Facebook Mobile Maps Webcasts RSS Data Subscribe More Resources