Application | District of Columbia Courts Application Fill out an application ( en Español | form in English with guided help ) and submit it along with a copy of your DC police report or DC civil protection order (the program does not accept temporary restraining orders), any bills or receipts that you would like to have reimbursed by the program. You may submit the application in one of the following ways: Court Building A, 515 5th Street NW, Suite 109, Washington, DC 20001 Email: CVCPapplications [at] dcsc.gov ( Please note that you may need to use a PDF reader to save information and submit your form directly ; otherwise, please scan and use the email address to send the form and related documents). Fax: 202-879-4230 Review Process Completed applications are reviewed by claims examiners. Claims examiners make determinations on whether to approve or deny an application. The claimant is notified by mail or email of the determination and informed of the appeal process. If there is new or previously unavailable information, the claimant may file a Request for Reconsideration within 30 days of the initial determination. If the applicant disagrees with the determination but does not have new or previously unavailable information, they can appeal the initial decision within 30 days. The Appeals Board reviews the application and all supporting documents in the file. The Appeals Board may hold a hearing when necessary. A final determination by the Board may be appealed to the Chief Judge of the Court. All Requests for Reconsideration may be filed in the Crime Victims Compensation Program office or submitted to CVCPOffice [at] dcsc.gov. Appeals may be filed in the Crime Victims Compensation Program office or submitted to CVCPAppeals [at] dcsc.gov. Information, records, and transcripts of hearings contained in the claims files are confidential and not open to public inspection. The claimant, his authorized representative, or a physician treating or examining the claimant are exceptions. Other persons may inspect the claimant's files and records only when rendering assistance to the court on a matter pertaining to the administration of the claim. Information on Attorneys It is not necessary to have an attorney file a claim with the Crime Victims Compensation Program. The Crime Victims Compensation Program cannot pay attorney's fees for assisting a victim with the filing of a compensation application. The claimant may have an attorney or other representative present at any appeals proceeding. In addition to the amount of compensation awarded to a successful claimant, a reasonable fee may be awarded to the claimant's attorney for services rendered in connection with an appeals proceeding. Pursuant to DC Code §4-512(g), except for necessary costs, an attorney shall not charge, demand, receive, or collect a fee for services rendered in connection with a claim for compensation in excess of 10 percent of the claimant's award or $500, whichever is less. Crime Victims Compensation Program Leadership Acting Program Director LouEthel Green-Williams Location Court Building A 515 Fifth Street NW Room 109 Washington , D.C. 20001 Get directions Hours of Operation Day Hours Monday - Friday: 08:30 am-05:00 pm Saturday - Sunday: Closed Contact Info General Information phone (202) 879-4216 fax (202) 879-4230 email CVCPOffice [at] dcsc.gov Confirm translation ×