Rule 1. Purpose.
These rules govern the implementation of the Crime Victims Compensation Program
("Program") in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia ("Court"), as set forth in
the “Victims of Violent Crime Compensation Act of 1996,” as amended, D.C. Code 4501 et seq. The Program provides compensation to victims of violent crime for medical
and related expenses, and loss of services, support and earnings.

1

Rule 2. Scope.
These rules shall apply to all claims filed with the Program after the effective date of
the "Victims of Violent Crime Compensation Emergency Act of 1996." All claims filed
prior to the effective date of the "Victims of Violent Crime Compensation Emergency
Act of 1996" shall be processed pursuant to the Department of Employment Services'
Notice of Final Rulemaking (29 DCR 4453), effective November 7, 1982, as
implemented under the "Victims of Violent Crime Compensation Act of 1981."

2

Rule 3. Administration.
The Program, shall (a) investigate claims filed pursuant to D.C. Code § 4-501 et seq.,
(b) obtain from agencies of the District of Columbia and the United States information,
data and assistance to facilitate the determination of whether a crime was committed or
attempted and whether the claimant is eligible for compensation, (c) process and maintain
claims in the order filed, including claims filed under the Victims of Violent Crime
Compensation Act of 1981, (d) determine each claim filed and reinvestigate and reopen
cases when necessary, (e) require and direct medical examinations of victims and
secondary victims when necessary, (f) publicize the existence of the Program, and (g)
provide printed informational materials about the program, including brochures and
posters, in both English and Spanish.

3

Rule 4. Confidentiality of records and hearings.
(a) Hearings, information, records and transcripts of hearings conducted and maintained
by the Program shall be confidential and closed to the public, except that:
(1) A claimant, or the representative of a claimant with the claimant's signed
authorization, may review the claimant's claim;
(2) Physicians treating or examining a claimant seeking benefits from the Program or
physicians advising the Program regarding any claim may, with the Programs
authorization, inspect the claims files and records of the claimant;
(3) Other persons, with the Program's authorization, may inspect the claims files and
records of the claimant when rendering assistance to the Program on a matter pertaining
to the administration of the Program; and
(4) Other persons may be present at hearings upon the written authorization of the
claimant or the Director of the Program.
(b) Meetings of the Appeals Board shall be closed to the public. The Chairperson or, in
his or her absence, the member designated to act as presiding officer shall direct a
member to record minutes of each meeting of the Appeals Board. The minutes shall be
confidential.

4

Rule 5. Appointment and qualification of Advisory Commission members;
designation of Chairperson; conduct of meetings.
(a) A Crime Victims Compensation Advisory Commission ("Commission") shall be
established as set forth in D.C. Code § 4-504 and shall consist of fifteen members,
appointed by the Chief Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia ("Chief
Judge") to serve a three-year term, and until successors are appointed and qualified. An
Advisory Commission member is eligible for reappointment at the expiration of the
member's term.
(b) One member of the Advisory Commission shall be designated by the Chief Judge to
serve as Chairperson. The Chairperson shall serve as presiding officer at all Advisory
Commission meetings. In the absence of the Chairperson at a Commission meeting, the
remaining Commission members may designate a member to preside over the meeting.
(c) The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairperson. The order of business at
any meeting of the Commission shall follow the agenda prepared in advance of the
meeting. Such other matters may be brought before the Commission as shall be requested
by any member in writing and presented to the Chairperson. An employee of the
Program, designated by the Director of the Program, shall serve as the Program's
Commission Liaison and shall be responsible for preparation of minutes for each
Commission meeting.
(d) Roberts Rules of Order, Revised shall govern all meetings of the Commission.

5

Rule 6. Appointment of Crime Victims Compensation Appeals Board members
and alternates; designation of Chairperson; conduct of meetings; compensable
expenses; conflicts of interest.
(a) A Crime Victims Compensation Appeals Board ("Board") shall be established and
shall consist of five members from among the qualified membership of the Advisory
Commission, appointed by the Chief Judge to serve at his or her pleasure. At least one of
the members must be an attorney. The Chief Judge may appoint qualified members of
the Advisory Commission to serve as alternates on the Board in the event of the
unavailability of a Board member. Three Board members shall constitute a quorum,
provided that either the Chairperson or person designated to act as presiding officer in his
or her absence is present.
(b) The Chief Judge shall designate one member of the Appeals Board to serve as
Chairperson. The Chairperson shall serve as the presiding officer at all Board meetings
and hearings on contested claims. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Chairperson
shall designate a Board member to serve as presiding officer.
(c) The Appeals Board shall meet at least quarterly at the call of the Chairperson to
consider contested compensation claims. At least five days prior to the scheduled
meeting, the Program shall forward to the members of the Board and alternate Board
members the appeal documents and record of all cases in which an appeal has been filed.
The Chairperson, or the member designated to act as presiding officer in his or her
absence, shall prepare an agenda for each meeting and forward the agenda to each Board
member, alternate Board member, and the Program prior to the scheduled meeting. The
Board shall consider each case on the agenda and determine by majority vote of the
quorum whether the determination of the Program shall be affirmed, modified, or
reversed, or whether a hearing should be held prior to a decision of the Board.
(d) Appeals Board members shall not be compensated, but may be reimbursed for
reasonable out-of-pocket expenses directly related to the Board's meetings. Requests for
reimbursement must be in writing, supported by receipts and filed with the Program
within 20 days of the meeting or hearing for which expense compensation is sought.
Reimbursement for expenses shall not exceed twenty dollars per member per meeting.
(e) An Appeals Board member who becomes aware of a conflict of interest shall report it
immediately, in writing, to the Chief Judge upon learning of the conflict. A conflict shall
exist if a Board member is aware of any circumstances which would impair the Appeals
Board member's ability to make an impartial decision concerning the claim, including but
not limited to (1) a personal or professional relationship between the Board member and
the claimant, offender, or an immediate family member of the claimant; or (2) personal
knowledge of the crime for which compensation is sought or persons related in any way
to the crime. The Chief Judge shall make a determination as to the existence of a conflict
and appoint an alternate, if necessary.

6

Rule 7. Eligibility for compensation.
(a) A claimant is eligible for compensation if:
(1) The claimant suffered injury as a result of a crime;
(2) The crime upon which the claim is based was reported to appropriate law
enforcement officials within seven days of its occurrence or, if it could not reasonably be
reported within that time, within seven days of when it could reasonably have been
reported;
(3) The claimant files a claim with the Crime Victims Compensation Program within 1
year of the occurrence of the crime, or within one year of learning of the existence of the
program provided that the claimant makes an adequate showing that the delay in learning
of the program was reasonable;
(4) The claimant was at the time of the crime:
(A) a person who suffered personal injury or death in the District of Columbia;
(B) a resident of the District of Columbia who suffered personal injury or death as a
result of a terrorist act or act of mass violence committed outside of the United States;
(C) a resident of the District of Columbia who suffered personal injury or death
outside the District of Columbia in a state that does not have a crime victims
compensation program that is eligible for funding under the Victims of Crime Act of
1984 (98 Stat. 2170, 42 U.S.C. 10601 et seq.), as a direct result of:
(i) a crime;
(ii) assisting lawfully to apprehend a person reasonably suspected of committing
or attempting to commit a crime;
(iii) assisting a person against whom a crime has been committed or attempted if
the assistance was rendered in a reasonable manner;
(iv) attempting to prevent the commission of a crime; or
(v) a violation of sections 9 or 10 of the District of Columbia Traffic Act (D.C.
Code §§ 50-2201.04 and -2201.05) or a comparable state law regarding driving
violations; and
(5) The claimant was a victim, secondary victim, or a person (not a provider of
services) acting on behalf of a victim or secondary victim.
(b) Factors to be considered in determining the reasonableness of the reporting time shall
include, but are not limited to:
(1) the physical or mental incapacity of the victim;
(2) the age of the victim;
(3) whether the injury to the victim was reasonably discoverable;
(4) the lack of a police report through no fault of the victim; and
(5) the failure or non-cooperation of persons who could reasonably have aided the
victim in filing a report;
A victim who does not report the crime to appropriate law enforcement officials
may satisfy the reporting requirement (1) if he or she has been sexually assaulted, by
seeking a sexual assault examination from a licensed medical treatment facility within a
reasonable time period, (2) if he or she is the victim of domestic violence, by obtaining a
civil protection order or (3) if he or she is the victim of cruelty to children, by the filing of
a neglect petition. If a victim of domestic violence is seeking assistance with temporary
emergency housing and a civil protection order has not yet been issued but a temporary

7

protection court order has been issued, the temporary protection order may satisfy the
reporting requirement until the civil protection order is issued.
(c) An application for assistance may be denied in whole or in part if the Program finds
that:
(1) Denial is appropriate due to the nature of the victim's or secondary victim's
involvement in the events leading to the relevant crime; or
(2) The claimant failed to provide information to a requesting law enforcement agency
or did not reasonably cooperate with law enforcement officials in apprehending the
offender, except that refusal of a victim or claimant to testify against the offender may be
excused if testifying would subject the victim or claimant to a substantial risk of serious
physical or emotional injury.
Reasonable cooperation by the victim may include, but is not limited to, the following:
(A) Providing law enforcement officers with a true and accurate report of the crime;
(B) Participating in the investigation of the crime to assist law enforcement officers
in the identification of a suspect; and
(C) Participating in prosecution procedures, including deposition, grand jury and
trial.
(d) A claimant is not eligible for compensation if:
(1) The claimant/victim knowingly or willingly participated in or aided in the
commission of the crime upon which the claim is based, as determined by evaluation of
the Police Report, except that a secondary victim is not automatically ineligible for
compensation under such circumstances;
(2) The claimant's/victim's consent, substantial provocation or substantial incitement
caused the injury or death for which compensation is sought. Factors to be considered in
determining consent, substantial provocation, and substantial incitement may include but
are not limited to law enforcement documentation indicating:
(A) Whether charges were filed against the suspect;
(B) Whether the victim attempted to withdraw from the incident;
(C) Whether the victim deliberately provoked the offender by means of fighting
words, racial or other bias-motivated taunting, or by threats coupled with overt actions
indicating the victim’s intent to carry out the threats;
(D) Comparable or reasonable force on the part of the suspect in response to an
action of the victim;
(E) The amount of time from the beginning of the interaction between the victim
and the suspect and the criminal act committed by the suspect;
(F) The age of the victim; and
(G) Comparable size or strength of the victim and suspect.
(e) Gang membership or co-habitation with the offender is not a disqualifying factor
under this rule, unless the claimant would be substantially and unjustly enriched by an
award.
(f) The award of compensation to the claimant shall not enrich the offender except in
extraordinary circumstances where the interests of justice so require. Factors to be
considered in determining whether an offender will be unjustly enriched shall include,
but are not limited to:
(1) Whether the claimant is cooperating with law enforcement officers in the
investigation and prosecution of the crime;

8

(2) Whether the offender will have access to the compensation paid to the claimant or
a service provider on behalf of the victim;
(3) The claimant’s familial relationship to the offender; and, or
(4) The presence of the offender in the claimant’s household at the time of the award.

9

Rule 8. Filing of application.
A claim is considered filed when the claimant submits a completed Application for
Crime Victims Compensation (“Application”), to the Program Office. The Application
may be mailed or delivered in person to the Program Office. If a person eligible for
compensation is a minor or legally incompetent, a claim may be filed on such person's
behalf by the person's parent, guardian or personal representative.
COMMENT: The intent of the Rule is to allow guardians ad litem, even if not specified
in the Rule, to file claims on behalf of minors or legal incompetents.

10

Rule 9. Contents of Application
The application for a claim must contain the following:
(a) Information or facts sufficient to establish eligibility;
(b) Whether the claim is for injury, death benefits, or other compensable economic losses, or an
emergency award;
(c) Whether the claimant is a victim, a secondary victim, or a person (not a provider of services)
acting on behalf of the victim or secondary victim;
(d) A description of the injury or death, date of crime, and any known information concerning
the offender;
(e) The name, address, phone number, and birth date of the victim or secondary victim and the
claimant (if different from the victim or secondary victim);
(f) The name, address, and birth date of any dependent included in the claim;
(g) Sufficient information and documentation to support each claim of economic loss;
(h) Information regarding any restitution, insurance, or other collateral source of benefits or
compensation related to a claim;
(i) A declaration of subrogation and suit notification signed by the claimant;
(j) For a claimant seeking compensation for medical expenses, any necessary authorization
permitting:
(1) release of all medical bills relating to the victim’s or secondary victim’s injuries for which
compensation is sought; and
(2) the medical provider to complete the certification required by Rule 13;
(k) Any other necessary authorization for release of non-medical information related to a claim;
(l) An affirmation signed by the claimant; and
(m) Any other information that the Program reasonably may require.

11

Rule 10. Processing of application.
Upon the filing of an application, the Program will date stamp the application and
assign to it a claim number and a claims examiner. Applications shall be assigned to
claims examiners on a rotating basis, subject to the Program Director's discretion where
special needs are identified.

12

Rule 11. Request for law enforcement verification.
Verification information shall be requested from the applicable law enforcement
agency in order to determine whether the claimant meets the law enforcement reporting
requirement. The Program shall hand-deliver or mail the Request for Law Enforcement
Verification to the law enforcement agency within five working days of the filing of a
claim. The information requested shall include Metropolitan Police Department reports
PD 251 and PD 255, or comparable reports from other law enforcement agencies, and
any affidavit or other written statement that relates to the offense, is signed by the
claimant and/or victim, and is in the possession of the law enforcement agency. The law
enforcement agency shall be requested to return the completed, signed Law Enforcement
Verification Form to the Program by first-class mail or by messenger within 21 working
days of receipt of the Request for Law Enforcement Verification.

13

Rule 12. Request for prosecution information.
The following information shall be requested from the United States Attorney's Office
or other prosecuting agency when necessary:
(a) Whether the victim cooperated with law enforcement agencies;
(b) Whether the victim contributed to his or her injury;
(c) Whether the victim committed or aided in the commission of the crime;
(d) Whether the victim resided in the same household with the claimant at the time of the
crime; and
(e) Disposition of the case, including whether restitution has been or will be sought or
ordered, except that information on the disposition of cases involving juveniles
prosecuted by the District of Columbia Corporation Counsel shall not be disclosed.

14

Rule 13. Request for Medical Expense and Treatment Verification
(a) IN GENERAL. If a claimant seeks compensation for a victim’s or secondary victim’s
medical expenses for injuries related to a crime, the Program must request:
(1) a copy of all medical bills related to the claim from any individual or entity providing
medical services to the victim or secondary victim; and
(2) a certification from the medical provider, under the penalty of perjury, indicating:
(A) the dates of medical services;
(B) the final amount due from the victim or secondary victim; and
(C) that the services were directly related to the crime.
(b) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION. If the Program determines, in its sole discretion, that it
needs additional information in deciding whether to approve a claim related to medical expenses,
the Program may request the victim’s or secondary victim’s medical records. The victim or
secondary victim must provide any necessary authorization for release of the medical records.
(c) FORM OF REQUEST. The Program’s request for the medical certification and the medical
bills or records must include the victim’s or secondary victim’s authorization provided in
accordance with Rule 9(j) or 13(b).
COMMENT TO 2021 AMENDMENTS
Medical expenses are listed in Rule 24.

15

Rule 14. Request for employment information.
If a claimant files an application for loss of earnings or support the following
information shall be requested from the victim's employer:
(a) The employee's name, address, date employed, job title, days and hours worked per
week, and time lost as a result of the crime;
(b) Gross earnings, federal and district taxes, and withholdings and other income; and
(c) Benefits available for medical expenses and loss of earnings.

16

Rule 15. Request for funeral expenses verification.
If a claimant files an application for funeral expenses, the funeral bill shall be
requested, along with a statement of what funeral expenses, if any, have been paid by any
other agency or source.

17

Rule 16. Procedure for claim determination.
(a) Upon the receipt of verification requests, a claims examiner of the Program shall
process and initially determine whether a claimant qualifies for program benefits. If the
claimant is eligible for benefits, the claim examiner shall evaluate crime related losses,
and:
(1) May refer claimant to collateral sources;
(2) Shall contact providers to confirm payments from collateral sources and/or the
victim's receipt or entitlement to such payment;
(3) Shall compute entitlement to Program benefits;
(4) Shall prepare payment requests for approval by the Director and transmittal to the
Budget and Finance Operations Division of the Superior Court; and
(5) Shall make appropriate deductions in compensation where the conduct of the victim
in the crime causes a partial denial of compensation.
(b) If verification is not received, the claim may be processed, but the provider from
whom pending documentation has not been received shall be sent a letter informing the
provider that benefits will be considered only upon receipt of verification.
(c) Upon recommendation of denial of a claim, the claims examiner shall explain and
document the reasons for denial, and forward the file to the Director for final decision.

18

Rule 17. Notice of determination.
(a) The Program shall send a Notice of the Determination to the claimant by first class
mail. The Notice shall contain the following:
(1) A statement of whether the claim is granted, denied, or granted in part and denied in
part;
(2) The amount of any award or partial award for loss of earnings, support or services
and out-of-pocket expenses;
(3) The reasons for the Determination;
(4) Instructions for (A) requesting reconsideration or (B) an appeal before the Board,
and notice of the availability of pro bono representation; and
(5) A statement indicating any service provider that will be paid directly and the
amount to be paid.
(b) A claimant may agree in writing to a final determination at any time and thereby
waive his or her right to reconsideration, appeal or both.
(c) If no request for reconsideration or an appeal is made within 30 days of receiving the
determination, the determination shall become final.

19

Rule 18. Request of reconsideration.
The claimant may, within 30 days after receiving the determination, request
reconsideration based on new or previously unavailable evidence. Upon the written
request of a claimant for reconsideration and the submission of new evidence which
could change the determination in whole or in part, the Program may reconsider the
determination. New evidence only shall be accepted if it is material to the claim and
would affect the determination. The Program must render a decision based on the
additional evidence within 30 days after receiving it. The Program may affirm, modify, or
reverse its initial decision. The Program shall send a Notice of Decision on
Reconsideration, and the reasons therefor to the claimant by first class mail, along with
instructions for filing an appeal.

20

Rule 19. Modification of determination by program.
The Program may reconsider and modify a determination at any time if new evidence
reveals that the claimant was not eligible for an award, was guilty of contributory
misconduct, knowingly provided false information in support of a claim, or suppressed
relevant information concerning a claim.

21

Rule 20. Appeal of determination or decision on reconsideration.
(a) A claimant may within 30 days of receiving the determination, or within 30 days of
receiving the notice of decision on reconsideration, appeal the determination or decision
on reconsideration to the Board. The appeal must be filed with the Program within 30
days of receiving the determination or notice of decision on reconsideration. The
Program shall forward the appeal to members of the Board.
(b) The Board shall consider the appeal on the record at the next meeting scheduled after
receiving the appeal, provided that the appeal and the record are received at least five (5)
days prior to the meeting. Within 20 days after the meeting, the Board shall either (1)
provide the claimant with its written decision, explaining its determination and the
reasons therefor, or (2) give notice to the claimant that it will hold a hearing on the
appeal.
(c) If the Board determines that it will hold a hearing in a particular case, it shall provide
written notice to the claimant within 60 days of the Board meeting at which the appeal
was discussed, including the time, date and place of the hearing. The hearing shall occur
within 30 days after the issuance of the Notice of Hearing on the Appeal, unless the
claimant or claimant's counsel submits a written request to the Chairperson of the Board
for a continuance of the hearing.
(d) The claimant shall have the burden of proof on appeal. The standard of proof before
the Board shall be by a preponderance of the evidence. The claimant and the Program
shall be allowed a reasonable time for presentation or oral argument or for the filing of
briefs or other pleadings as to the facts or the law.
(e) The Board may proceed as it determines and may consider any statement, document,
information or other matter that it finds is relevant to the determination of the appeal and
necessary to afford the parties a fair hearing.
(f) The Board may accept hospital records and physicians reports as proof of the injury
sustained, without requiring the presence of an attending physician at the hearing.
(g) In disputes as to medical facts, the Program may order a medical examination of the
victim by a physician designated and compensated by the Program.
(h) All witnesses shall testify under oath or by affirmation. All hearings shall be recorded
by a court reporter or an electronic sound recording device, and maintained as the Board
directs. The Program may examine the claimant and all witnesses.
(i) The Board shall not be bound by common law or statutory rules of evidence, or by
technical or formal rules of procedure, other than the rules stated herein.
(j) Hearings may be adjourned at the discretion of the Board Chairperson.
(k) The failure of the claimant to appear at the time of the hearing may, upon good cause
shown, be excused and the hearing rescheduled.

22

Rule 21. Judicial review of board decisions.
A Final Decision by the Board may be appealed to the Chief Judge by filing a Request
for Judicial Review with the Program within 30 days of the date of the issuance of the
Final Decision. The Program shall forward the Request for Judicial Review immediately
to the Chief Judge, together with the claim file and record of the Board Proceeding. The
Chief Judge shall have power to affirm, modify, or set aside the Final Decision by the
Board, in whole or in part, and if necessary, to remand the case for further proceedings.
The decision of the Chief Judge shall be final.

23

Rule 22. Compensation limit.
Compensation for any one claim shall not exceed $ 25,000. A claim refers to all
requests for compensation arising from a single victimization. Claims are payable subject
to the availability of monies in the Fund.

24

Rule 23. Computation of compensation award.
(a) The compensation award shall be equal to the claimant's economic loss decreased by
the amount received or available to the claimant from any emergency payments and
collateral sources including payments and benefits from:
(1) The person who committed the crime, or someone on his or her behalf;
(2) A wage continuation program of an employer;
(3) A contract of life, health, disability, liability, or fire and casualty insurance, or a
contract providing prepaid hospital or health care benefits;
(4) Proceeds of a lawsuit brought as a result of a crime;
(5) Life Insurance proceeds of more than $50,000; and
(6) The United States, the District of Columbia, a state or territory of the United States
or its political subdivisions, or an agency of the foregoing, including Social Security,
Medicare, Medicaid, Workers' Compensation, Public Employees' Disability
Compensation, the Department of Human Services, the Department of Health, the Child
and Family Services Agency, and Court Social Services.
(b) Compensation awards may be reduced if it is determined by the Program that a
reduction is warranted due to the nature of the victim's involvement in the events leading
up to the crime, or the claimant's failure to cooperate with law enforcement officials.

25

Rule 24. Medical expenses.
(a) Compensation for medical expenses may be awarded when the claimant demonstrates
economic loss as a result of a crime involving death or injury, including pregnancy and
emotional trauma.
(b) Medical expenses include, but are not limited to:
(1) Ambulance, hospital, surgical, medical, nursing, dental, optometric,
ophthalmologic, chiropractic, podiatric, in-patient mental health, and pregnancy-related
care;
(2) Medical, dental, hearing, and surgical supplies; and
(3) Crutches and prosthetic devices taken, lost or destroyed during the commission of
the crime, as well as new prosthetic devices which became necessary as a direct result of
the crime, training in the use of such devices, and prescription eye glasses, taken, lost, or
destroyed during the commission of the crime.
(c) Compensation may be awarded for costs incurred for pregnancy resulting from a
sexual assault. This includes the cost of an abortion, or prenatal care and delivery, but not
the cost of raising a child conceived through sexual assault.
(d) Compensation for mental health expenses shall not exceed $ 3,000 for adults and $
6,000 for minor children. Out-patient mental health counseling expenses which became
necessary as a direct result of the crime are compensable if provided by a (1) licensed
psychiatrist or psychologist, (2) licensed social worker, or (3) licensed marriage, family,
or child counselor, if such licensed practitioner provides services within the scope of his
or her licensure.

26

Rule 25. Funeral, burial or cremation expenses.
Compensation of up to $6,000 may be awarded for reasonable expenses incurred for
actual services related to funeral, burial or cremation. Compensation shall not be payable
for clothing for the victim's family members or dependents.

27

Rule 26. Crime scene clean-up.
Compensation of up to $1000 may be awarded to claimants for reasonable costs
associated with cleaning up the crime scene. Compensable items include the reasonable
cost of cleaning supplies, rented or purchased equipment necessary for cleanup, and labor
associated with the cleanup. Except as otherwise provided in these rules, no
reimbursement shall be awarded to replace or repair property damaged as a result of the
crime.

28

Rule 27. Replacement clothing.
Reasonable compensation up to $100 may be awarded for the replacement value of
clothing of a living victim which is held by law enforcement officials for evidentiary
purposes.

29

Rule 28. Loss of earnings.
Loss of earnings may be compensated for a total period of up to 52 weeks after the
date of the crime, in an amount not to exceed the lesser of 80 % of the victim's net pay or
$10,000. An award of loss of earnings shall be subject to ongoing review, based on the
claimant’s average earnings at the time of the crime, and computed and paid out
periodically in accord with guidelines established by the Program. If the victim was
unemployed, was receiving unemployment compensation at the time of the crime, and the
compensation was terminated because the victim no longer qualified for compensation as
a result of circumstances relating directly or indirectly to the crime, an award may be
made in the amount of money the victim would have received in unemployment
compensation benefits but for the crime.

30

Rule 29. Temporary emergency food and housing.
Upon referral by a prosecutor, law enforcement officer, judicial officer, or victims
advocate, the cost of temporary emergency food and housing for a period of up to 120
days may be awarded. The maximum award for temporary emergency housing shall be
$3,000. The maximum award for emergency food shall be $400. No award shall be
made for temporary emergency housing until a victim has exhausted all benefits under
any program administered by the U.S. Attorney's Office including the U.S. Attorney's
Emergency Witness Assistant Program.

31

Rule 30. Loss of support.
Loss of support for dependents resulting from death or disability shall be limited to
$2,500 per dependent not to exceed $7,500 per victimization.
(a) Surviving Spouse. If the claimant is the surviving spouse with or without a dependent
child or children, the Program shall:
(1) Determine the victim's average net weekly income for the three (3) months
immediately preceding the crime and multiply by 52, or if the victim was self-employed,
the net annual profit for the calendar year immediately preceding the crime, subtracting
the tax liability for social security tax, federal income tax, city income tax and local wage
taxes to establish the net adjusted profit;
(2) Attribute 80% of the net adjusted profit or income as support to the surviving
dependents;
(3) Multiply the net annual loss of support by the number of years of expected support.
(b) Guardian. If the claimant is a guardian of the dependent child or children of the
victim, the Program shall:
(1) Determine the victim's net annual income for the twelve (12) months immediately
preceding the crime, or if the victim was self-employed, the net annual profit for the
calendar year immediately preceding the crime, subtracting the tax liabilities for social
security, Federal income tax, city income tax and local wage taxes to establish the net
adjusted profit;
(2) Attribute 80% of annual income or the net adjusted profit as support to the surviving
dependent or dependents;
(3) Determine the number of years until the dependent or dependents shall attain the
age of 18 and could have reasonably expected to be supported by the victim;
(4) Multiply the number of years of expected support by the net annual loss of support;
and
(5) Prorate the award among the dependent children.
(c) Principal Supporter. If the victim is or was responsible for the principal support of
the claimant the Program shall determine the amount of annual support provided by the
victim to the claimant and multiply the net annual amount of support contributed by the
victim to the claimant by the number of years during which support could have been
expected.
(d) Pensioner. If the victim was a pensioner, the Program shall attribute 80% of all
pension income received by the victim as support to the claimant. The claimant must
submit documents to show the amount of support received from the pensioner.

32

Rule 31. Loss of services.
Compensation for loss of services may be awarded for the physical care the victim
would have provided to dependents if the victim had lived or had not been disabled, the
replacement services necessary as the result of the injury or death of the victim such as
housekeeping, child care, etc., and replacement wages for a person who assumes
responsibility for the services previously provided by the victim. Compensation for loss
of services shall be limited to the minimum hourly wage for the District of Columbia, and
shall not exceed $ 200 per week and $ 2,500 per victimization.

33

Rule 32. Securing residence.
Compensation of up to $1,000 may be awarded for the reasonable cost of replacement
of doors, windows, locks or other items necessary to secure the victim’s home or other
place of residence, except that the costs of guard dogs, other animals, guns or other
weapons shall not be awarded.

34

Rule 33. Rental car.
Compensation of up to $2,000 may be awarded for the reasonable cost of a rental car
for the period of time that a victim or secondary victim’s automobile is being held by the
police as evidence or to collect evidence.

35

Rule 34. Moving expenses.
Upon referral by a prosecutor, law enforcement officer, judicial officer, medical or
mental health services provider, or victims advocate, compensation of up to $1,500 may
be awarded for reasonable moving expenses where necessary for health or safety. No
award shall be made for moving expenses until a victim has exhausted all benefits under
any program administered by the U.S. Attorney's Office including the U.S. Attorney's
Emergency Witness Assistant Program.

36

Rule 35. Transportation expenses.
Up to $500 for necessary out of state travel and up to $100 for all local transportation,
not to exceed a total of $600 per claim, may be awarded for reasonable transportation
expenses incurred by the victim or secondary victim for the following purposes:
(1) to participate in court proceedings;
(2) to participate in the investigation or prosecution of the case;
(3) to obtain medical care, supplies or equipment;
(4) in the case of secondary victims, to obtain psychiatric, psychological, or mental
health counseling required as a direct result of the crime;
(5) in the case of victims, to obtain physical or occupational therapy and rehabilitation;
or
(6) to obtain any other services required as a direct result of the crime.

37

Rule 36. Payments of Claims.
Awards may be paid in a lump sum, in trust, in installment payments or may be paid
directly to a provider of medical services or for other expenses relating to economic loss.

38

Rule 37. Emergency awards.
Emergency awards not exceeding $1,000 may be made when it appears likely that a
claimant will be approved for compensation. Awards will only be granted where a
claimant can show a compelling need or that the claimant is unable to afford the basic
necessities of food, clothing and shelter, as a direct result of the crime that is the basis of
the claim. To receive an emergency award, a claimant must produce law enforcement
verification evidencing that a crime has been committed, written proof of the financial
emergency (e.g., a notice of eviction from the landlord, a shut-off notice from the utilities
company, other correspondence, bank records or other documents which demonstrate an
inability to overcome the emergency, and if the financial emergency is caused by a wage
loss, a letter or certificate from the employer stating that the victim was employed in
good standing but cannot work due to the incident, and that the victim does not have any
sick leave benefits available. If compensation is awarded, the Program shall deduct the
amount of the emergency award from any final award. If the emergency award is greater
than the final award, the claimant must repay the difference. If compensation is not
awarded, the claimant must repay the emergency award in its entirety.

39

Rule 38. Availability of monies in the crime victims fund.
(a) All compensation awards are subject to the availability of monies in the Fund. No
compensation payments shall be made which exceed the amount of money in the Fund.
The Court is not liable for a Final Determination of an award of compensation except to
the extent that unencumbered monies are available in the Fund on the date the award is
ordered.
(b) All compensation awards shall be paid in the order that they are forwarded to the
Budget and Finance Operations Division of the Court by the date of the Request for
Payment. When a Final Determination for an award is made and forwarded to the Budget
and Finance Operations Division, the funds for payment of the award are thereby
encumbered.
(c) If there are insufficient funds to pay an award, the claimant may agree to a
proportional reduction of benefits. This reduction of benefits may be agreed to in order
to receive compensation payments at an earlier date. A claimant who accepts a
proportional reduction of benefits waives entitlement to the remaining portion of the
settlement and thus may not in future years file for the amount of the reduction in claims.

40

Rule 39. Attorney's fees.
(a) Reasonable fees and costs may be awarded to an attorney for services rendered only
in connection with an appeal proceeding under the Act.
(b) No attorney may charge, demand, receive, or collect any fee for services rendered on
any claim appeals proceeding in any amount larger than $500 or 10% of the claimant's
award, whichever is less, as set forth in D.C. Code § 4-512(g).
(c) If a claimant designates an attorney to represent the claimant's interests in the claim
appeals proceeding, such attorney shall file a notice of appearance with the Program.
Such notice shall remain in effect unless the party represented files with the Program a
written discharge of the attorney, the attorney, with the consent of the claimant, files with
the Program a written statement of withdrawal from the case, or the attorney makes an
oral statement of withdrawal from the case on the record at the hearing, and states the
reason for said withdrawal.
(d) To receive compensation for attorney's fees, the claimant or the claimant's attorney
must file with the Program a statement of services listing the nature of each service
rendered, the amount of time spent in rendering each service and the hourly rate charged
by the attorney to claimant for the services performed.
(e) If an attorney asserts a false claim as to the services rendered or the time spent, the
Program may reduce or deny the attorney's fee, in whole or in part.

41

Rule 40. Restitution, subrogation, and preservation of civil action.
An award under these rules shall not affect the claimant's right to recover damages from
the offender or third parties, or to obtain restitution from the offender. Upon applying for
compensation, where a claimant recovers damages or receives restitution, a claimant
must sign an agreement subrogating the District of Columbia to the claimant's right
against the offender or third parties to the extent of any compensation awarded by the
Program. On the application for compensation, the claimant must sign a declaration that
the claimant will notify the Program of the institution of any suit against the offender for
damages or restitution.

42

Rule 41. Prosecution of false claims.
Upon a finding that a claim has been falsely asserted, the Program shall refer the
claim to the appropriate law enforcement agency for investigation.

43

