Sexual Assault Victims We pay for sexual assault examinations. Victims have a right under law to receive this examination without cost. Providers must bill us, and not the victim. There are specific guidelines that providers must follow. Information for medical providers Here are our Billing Guidelines for Sexual Assault & DV with Strangulation Examinations (F800-100-000) billing guidelines. The guidelines include instructions to bill online, specific codes, and forms. You must bill us, and not the patient. Pharmacies billing for up to 28 day supply of HIV or prophylactic drugs for a sexual assault that occurred in the State of Washington can email a paper bill directly to our Sexual Assault Pharmacy Billing mailbox at SexualAssaultPharmacyBilling@LNI.WA.GOV . These drugs will be approved for payment for sexual assaults occurring in the State of WA only. The billing form that is required for this is the Crime Victims Statement for Pharmacy Services . In order to receive an examination, patients are not required to: Pay for the examination Use their own insurance Report to police File a crime victim’s application. If the patient needs additional medical or mental health treatment as the result of sexual assault, please assist them with filing a crime victim’s compensation claim . Information for victims If you have been a victim of sexual assault in the state of Washington you have a right to a free exam. We pay the medical provider. You also have the right to have an advocate present during your exam . Under law, to receive the exam you do not need to: Cooperate with law enforcement or participate in the criminal justice system. File a police report. You should not receive any bill for this examination. If you receive a bill contact us. If you need additional medical or mental health treatment as the result of sexual assault, we encourage you to file a crime victim’s compensation claim . Contact Crime Victims: Email: CrimeVictimsProgramM@Lni.wa.gov Toll-Free: 1-800-762-3716 Phone: 360-902-5355 Fax: 360-902-5333 Mailing Address Washington State Department of Labor & Industries Crime Victims Compensation Program PO Box 44520 Olympia, WA 98504-4520