Who Can File and What is Covered What are the benefits? What we may pay for Medical/Dental treatment Medication Mental health treatment Grief counseling Partial wage loss replacement Funeral expenses Expenses not covered by other insurance (such as medical co-pays and medical deductibles) How much we may pay How much we cover depends upon your insurance, and your situation. Maximum per claim: $190,000 Medical/Mental Health treatment: $150,000 maximum Wages (payments are based on 60% of the victim's wages) Family benefits of homicide victims: $40,000 maximum, includes burial expenses Benefits to crime victim: Temporary wage loss benefit (returning to work): up to $15,000 Permanent total disability wage loss benefit: up to $40,000 Burial expenses: up to $7,990 We don't pay for the following Crime scene cleanup Identity theft Loss or damage of personal property Do I qualify? To qualify for benefits you must have: Sustained a physical injury or mental health trauma as a result of a gross misdemeanor or felony crime in Washington State. Reported the crime to law enforcement and cooperated with the investigation. File a report with law enforcement within one year from the date of crime or within one year from when it reasonably could have been reported. Submit a timely application. Submit an application for benefits within three years of the crime being reported to law enforcement. Or, up to five years from the police report in certain circumstances. For minors, at the time of the crime, the application must be filed within two years of their 18th birthday. Circumstances vary and the laws are complex. To determine if you qualify for benefits please file a claim. Who is not eligible for benefits? Claims filed under these circumstances may be denied. If your injuries occurred: While committing a felony During incarceration As the result of your consent, provocation or incitement. Or, if you owe restitution or fines from a violent offense or crime against another person. Circumstances vary and the laws are complex. To determine if you qualify for benefits please file a claim. What if my claim is denied? If you disagree with a decision, send us a protest within 90 days of receiving the decision. The more information you provide, the faster we can review the decision. If you disagree with the follow-up decision, then submit an appeal to the Board of Industrial Insurance Appeals . Common reasons we deny a claim: No police report filed. No signature on the application. Travel Reimbursement Travel expenses may be reimbursed under some circumstances: The travel must be more than 15 miles one way from your home, and the first and last 15 miles of travel are not payable. No other provider of the same type is available closer to your home. Travel must also be preapproved by your claim manager for one of the following: Treatment for your accepted condition. An independent medical examination requested by your claim manager. Prescription eye glasses or contacts lost or damaged during an assault may be replaced in some cases. How to get reimbursed Use the Travel Reimbursement Request form (F800‑049‑000). Your request must be made within 1 year of the trip and must indicate the date, destination and reason for travel. Receipts are required for all expenses, except parking under $10. Travel costs are reimbursed at the current Washington state reimbursement rate. See the Domestic Per Diem Rates . Questions you may have Will I be reimbursed for damaged personal property? Eligible items may include: Eye glasses/contacts. Prosthetics, including orthotics, or hearing aids Clothing/footwear. Send repair or replacement receipts to your claim manager. What if I live or move out of state? You may have to travel a greater distance to receive care for your claim. If so, we may pay for your travel costs. You won't be paid if your claim manager doesn't pre‑approve your travel. If you're thinking of moving out of Washington, learn what you can do to communicate with L&I and find new care. Does CVCP pay for travel costs for independent medical exams (IME)? You may have to return to Washington for an independent medical examination. If needed, CVCP will pay for your transportation, lodging, meals, and wage replacement for lost wages to attend the exam. Contact Crime Victims: Email: CrimeVictimsProgramM@Lni.wa.gov Toll-Free: 1-800-762-3716 Phone: 360-902-5355 Fax: 360-902-5333 Mailing Address Washington State Department of Labor & Industries Crime Victims Compensation Program PO Box 44520 Olympia, WA 98504-4520