Sexual Assault Forensic Examinations (SAFE) | Attorney General Sexual Assault Forensic Examinations (SAFE) Quick Exit Maine ensures that survivors of sexual assaults that occur in Maine are not responsible for the cost of evidence collection, also known as a Sexual Assault Forensic Examination (SAFE). The Victims' Compensation Program provides direct reimbursement to hospitals and other healthcare providers who perform SAFE. Learn more about the SAFE Program on the Department of Health and Human Services' SAFE Program webpage . Notice to sexual assault victims If you have had a sexual assault forensic examination (with evidence collection kit) performed, you should know the following: The Victims' Compensation Program will pay the hospital up to $750 for the sexual assault examination. The hospital may not bill you or your insurer for the sexual assault examination nor for any balance over the $750. This bill will be paid even if you do not report the assault to law enforcement. However: The hospital is allowed to bill you or your insurer for charges unrelated to the sexual assault examination, for x-rays for example. Also, you may have other medical or counseling expenses or lost income due to the assault. If you need help with these expenses, you may file a Victims' Compensation Application, but, in that case, you will need to report the crime to law enforcement and other requirements of the Victims' Compensation Program will apply. If you are a survivor of sexual assault, advocacy support and resources are available at Maine Coalition Against Sexual Assault (MECASA) . Notice to healthcare providers performing SAFE Maine rules and statutes requires that you bill the Victims' Compensation Board in the Office of the Attorney General directly when you perform a forensic examination for an alleged victim of gross sexual assault, using an evidence collection kit. You may not bill the patient or the patient’s insurer for the examination and related testing and treatment. The maximum payment is $750 per examination. You may not balance bill the victim or the insurer. The VCB will review bills and authorize billing the patient or patient’s insurer for charges that are not related to the sexual assault examination (e.g. x-rays). This direct billing and payment process is to be used only when a forensic examination is performed using a sexual assault forensic examination kit. If a kit is not used, use your customary billing procedures. Victims are NOT required to report to law enforcement. If the victim does not report, the kit should be delivered to the nearest police department. A claim form for direct billing is included with each standard forensic examination kit. These kits are developed by and available through the Department of Public Safety. You must complete the claim form fully. If you are providing CPT codes, an itemization of services, and billed amounts by attached billing statements, the specific services provided must be checked off on the claim form. There are clear instructions with the claim forms. Submit claim forms and bills within 60 days of the forensic examination. Bills are paid approximately once a month. Please do not send second notices. The payment we issue will not list the patient’s name. It will list the victim tracking number which you provide to us on our claim form. The victim tracking number is the only identifier to link the patient, the charges, and the payment. Most providers use account or medical record numbers to track patients. Have the tracking number available if you call about a case. Rules and Statutes Governing SAFE The Victims' Compensation Board promulgated rules specifying the requirements with which providers must conform in order for their bills to be eligible for payment. The rules include what services must be made available to the patient and what services may be billed to the Victims' Compensation Program. Other requirements, including information about handling the sexual assault examination kits, are included in the statutes. 26 550 Victims' Compensation Board, Chapter 8, Rules for Sexual Assault Forensic Examinations Maine Revised Statutes, Title 5, section 3360-M, Payment for forensic examinations of victims of sexual assault