PENNSYLVANIA COMMISSION ON CRIME AND DELINQUENCY
Office of Victims’ Services
Victims Compensation Assistance Program (VCAP)
(800) 233-2339 or (717) 783-5153
Protocol and Billing Procedures for Forensic Rape Examinations (FRE)
Pennsylvania law, 18 P.S. § 11.707, provides that the costs of the forensic rape examination and
medications provided as a direct result of a sexual offense shall not be charged to the victim.
The victim of a sexual offense does not need to ‘report’ the sexual offense or ‘talk’ to law
enforcement in order for the costs to be paid by the Victims Compensation Assistance
Program (VCAP).
In order for payments to be considered, hospitals or licensed health care providers requesting
reimbursement of costs associated with a forensic rape examination are required to notify the
local law enforcement agency where the reported sexual assault occurred within 12 hours of
collection of the sexual assault evidence as per the Sexual Assault Testing and Evidence
Collection Act (Act 165 of 2006). Further, if the local law enforcement agency has not taken
possession of the evidence within 72 hours of the notification, the hospital or licensed health care
provider shall notify the PA Department of Health by calling 1-877-PAHEALTH. If the
notification process is not followed, the hospital or licensed health care provider may be
responsible for the costs of the forensic rape examination and medications provided.
If the adult victim wishes to anonymously report, hospitals must provide the name, address and
date of birth of the victim on the claim form, in addition to the Anonymous Identification
Number assigned to the forensic rape kit in order for VCAP to reimburse the costs. The names
of the victim will not be provided to anyone outside of PCCD. Please submit itemized bills,
which include the victim’s name showing eligible forensic rape examination costs.
Hospitals or licensed health care providers must inform victims of their choice in selecting
Option #1, #2 or #3 on the claim form. They must inform the victim that they may be billed for
services in instances where they have additional expenses beyond the forensic rape examination
costs, such as x-rays or other medical treatment not associated with a forensic rape examination.
They also must inform the victim that they can submit a standard VCAP claim form, which can
be obtained at www.pccd.pa.gov or by calling VCAP at 800-233-2339. Effective for crimes
occurring on or after 9/8/2022, a forensic rape exam is considered acceptable for reporting to
proper authorities. This change allows victims who have the FRE completed to be eligible for a
standard claim without having to report the crime to law enforcement.
A. Filing
1. An application for payment of the forensic rape examination shall consist of the completed
online Forensic Rape Examination Claim Form, along with an itemized bill with the
diagnosis code.

Protocol and Billing Procedures for FREs
Updated July 2024

2. Hospitals or licensed health care providers filing forensic rape examination claim forms are
required to file electronically. The required signature of the person, who has the authority
and affirms that the request is for the reimbursement of only eligible forensic rape
examination expenses, can be electronically submitted by typing their name on the
appropriate line under the Authorization section and submitting the required information to
VCAP. Their signature certifies that the victim was informed of Option #1, #2 and #3, and
that only eligible forensic rape examination expenses, as described in the Protocol and Billing
Procedures are being submitted to VCAP for reimbursement. Their signature also certifies
that the victim was informed that they may still be billed directly for expenses not related to
the forensic rape examination.
3. All supporting documentation (medical bills, insurance benefit statements, medical records)
must be uploaded into the Dependable Access for Victim Expenses (DAVE) system at the
time of the filing. Only files of .pdf, .jpeg, .jpg, .png, and .tiff can be uploaded. You can
upload multiple files at once.
4. The claim must be filed by a hospital or other licensed health care provider, within one year
of the date of the crime or discovery of the crime. Failure to file within the prescribed time
frame will result in non-payment of the claim and the victim cannot be billed for those costs.
5. Any provider performing a forensic rape examination on a sexual assault victim may file a
claim with VCAP if the crime occurred in Pennsylvania, OR if a Pennsylvania resident that is
sexually assaulted in another state returns to Pennsylvania to have the exam done by a
hospital or licensed health care provider as defined by the Crime Victims Act.
B. Awards
1. Payment made to a hospital or licensed health care provider by VCAP shall be considered
by the provider as payment in full for the costs associated with the forensic rape
examination and medications provided.
2. Health care providers must utilize the victim’s insurance to include Medical Assistance,
Health Maintenance Organizations or federally financed insurance programs such as
Medicare, before applying to VCAP. In instances where the victim or person responsible
for the victim requests that the provider not access insurance, the claim may be
electronically submitted directly to VCAP for consideration of payment.
C. Payment Procedures
1. Payment shall not exceed $1,000 for a forensic rape examination and materials used to
obtain evidence for law enforcement to pursue charges for sexual offenses pursuant to 18
Pa. C.S. Ch. 31, and for medications directly related to the sexual offense or rape, which
are prescribed at the time of the forensic rape examination.
2. The bill submitted to VCAP for forensic rape examination costs must include eligible
Protocol and Billing Procedures for FREs
Updated September 2024

2

forensic rape examination services as well as the diagnosis codes.
Expenses eligible for reimbursement include the following:
(i)

Physician/ARNP Office or Other Outpatient Services; Emergency Department
Services (which may include the collection of forensic evidence obtained for the
forensic rape kit).

(ii)

Alcohol Test – administered only to determine immediate medical treatment for
victims of rape or sexual assault.

(iii)

Venipuncture for the collection of whole blood samples.

(iv)

Laboratory tests for baseline sexually transmitted diseases and pregnancy:
a. Chlamydia;
b. Syphilis;
c. Gonorrhea Culture;
d. Pregnancy Test;
e. HIV Screening; (follow-up HIV costs need to be submitted on a standard
VCAP Claim Form by the victim or the person responsible for victim)
f. Hepatitis;
g. Gram Smear; and
h. Urine.
The costs for any follow up treatments will need to be submitted on a standard
VCAP Claim Form by the victim or the person responsible for the victim.

(v)

Use of medical facility for forensic rape evidence collection examination.

(vi)

Forensic evidence collection kit.

(vii)

Colposcopy.

(viii) Drug Screening – administered only to determine immediate medical treatment
for victims of rape or sexual assault. Does not include the costs for Rohypnol,
DNA, or other similar testing.
3. Expenses for procedures other than those listed in paragraph (C)(2) must be justified and
submitted, in writing, as being necessary and directly related to the forensic rape
examination.
D. Confidentiality
Providers are reminded of the strict confidentiality provisions of the Crime Victims Act set forth
at 18 P.S. §11.709, which prohibits disclosure of information relating to this claim except as
provided by law or with the written consent of the patient.
Protocol and Billing Procedures for FREs
Updated September 2024

3

E. Additional Information for Child Advocacy Centers
Child Advocacy Centers cannot request payment from the VCAP directly for the costs associated
with forensic rape examinations or forensic interviews because they are not licensed health care
providers. However, the licensed health care provider or hospital that conducted the examination
may file for reimbursement of those costs on behalf of the Child Advocacy Center. The Federal
Employer Identification Number (FEIN) of either the hospital or licensed health care provider
must be listed on the Forensic Rape Examination Claim Form.
Child Advocacy Centers must also follow the notification procedures as required under the
Sexual Assault Testing and Evidence Collection Act (Act 165 of 2006) in order for payments to
be considered.

Protocol and Billing Procedures for FREs
Updated September 2024

4

