Address Confidentiality Program (ACP)  | Office of Victim Advocate | Commonwealth of Pennsylvania The Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) The ACP can provide you with an alternate mailing address to keep your address out of public records if you are a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, human trafficking, or child abduction. The Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) The Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) is designed to be part of an overall safety plan. The ACP is Not a witness protection program. Once enrolled in the ACP you will: Be given an authorization card that includes your name, substitute address, and participant number. Use the confidential address as substitute address for the following: Court and state government records Driver’s licenses ID cards Vehicle Registrations Voter Registrations School Records Marriage Licenses Utility Bills Employment Records Be required to renew every 3 years. Eligibility To be eligible for the ACP you must be one of the following: Victim of Domestic Violence Victim of Sexual Assault Victim of Stalking Victim of Human Trafficking Victim of Child Abduction Apply Now Registering for the ACP is easy. You can receive assistance with enrollment at your local victim service agency where advocates will help you with your individual safety plan. You can also register online. Once OVA approves your application, we will issue you a participant card. You may immediately begin using your alternative address. Complete an online ACP application Visit your local Victim Service Program to complete an ACP Application Call OVA at 800-563-6399 Apply Online To apply for the ACP online, please fill out the application and return it to OVA at: Email your form to: RA-PMOVA-ACPPROGRAM@pa.gov Mail your form to: Office of Victim Advocate 1101 S. Front St, Suite 5200 Harrisburg, PA 17112 Apply for ACP Renew Online To renew your membership with the ACP, please fill out the Recertification Form and return it to OVA. Email your form to: RA-PMOVA-ACPPROGRAM@pa.gov Mail your form to: Office of Victim Advocate 1101 S. Front St, Suite 5200 Harrisburg, PA 17112 Recertify Your ACP Membership Locate a Service Provider Find service providers in your area Victim Services Resources ACP Flyer English ACP Spanish Contact OVA Contact us for questions on the ACP program or to enroll today. Call Us Mon. - Fri. 8:00am - 4:00pm 800-563-6399 Email the ACP RA-PMOVA-ACPPROGRAM@pa.gov OVA Contact Form OVA Contact Form Office of Victim Advocate Follow us on Facebook Office of Victim Advocate Follow us on YouTube Follow us on social media!