Relocation Expenses
and
The Victims Compensation Assistance Program
Eligible Relocation Expenses
Include:
• New rent cost
• Storage expenses
• Professional moving
company charges and van
rental
• Mileage
• Public transportation.
• Lodging (up to $75 per
night)
• Utility connection fees
• Tolls/Parking
• Rental of passenger vehicle
(up to $30 per day)
• Gas reimbursement for
official rental vehicles
• Rental application fee
VCAP cannot provide funds for
relocation up front. The expense
must be incurred before the
program can consider
reimbursement.
The $1,000 maximum
reimbursement amount is
specified by law.
If you have any questions
regarding eligibility or additional
services, please contact VCAP.
Telephone: (800) 233-2339
Fax: (717) 787-4306
Email: ra-davesupport@pa.gov

11/2023

The Commonwealth’s Victims Compensation Assistance Program
(VCAP) is committed to helping victims and their families ease the
financial burden crime imposes upon them. An individual, who as a
result of a crime, needs to immediately relocate to protect their health
and safety can be reimbursed for relocation expenses.
A maximum payment of $1,000 per direct victim can be reimbursed for
relocation expenses related to the crime. Relocation must occur within
120 days from the date of crime, or 120 days from the date the victim is
threatened by any change of circumstance or indicator of danger. The
relocation can be either temporary or permanent.
In order to consider reimbursement of relocation expenses, the
following needs to be provided:
Bills/receipts in the name of the victim that includes the name and
address of the provider, the date of service, the type of service
provided, and the amount charged for each service.
• A letter explaining the need for relocation from a human service
agency, law enforcement, or medical provider. If a letter cannot
be provided, provide the name and address of the agency and
VCAP will contact them to verify the need for relocation.
• If relocation occurred beyond the 120 days from the date of
crime, or change in circumstance, submit a letter explaining why
the relocation was not done within 120 days.
The Payment Process:
• All required documentation must be received before any
payments can be processed. The quicker VCAP receives the
requested information, the sooner any payments can be made
by VCAP.
• If payment is owed to the provider, VCAP will send payment
directly to the provider. Payments owed to the provider are
released from the PA Department of Treasury within 2-4 weeks
of being approved.
• If payment has been made by the victim/claimant, payment will
be sent to the victim/claimant within 2 business days of being
approved.

