Transportation Expenses
and
The Victims Compensation Assistance Program
Eligible transportation expenses
include:
•

Round-trip mileage for a
private vehicle. The rate
paid per mile is the state
rate at the time of the
service.

•

The Commonwealth’s Victims Compensation Assistance Program (VCAP)
is committed to helping victims and their families ease the financial
burden crime imposes upon them. An individual who incurs expenses
traveling to or from a place for medical care, counseling, pharmacy or to
attend a criminal justice proceeding, and for efforts that aid the
investigation is eligible for reimbursement of travel expenses. A
maximum payment of $35,000 per direct victim can be reimbursed for
transportation expenses related to the crime

Public transportation (such
To be considered for reimbursement of transportation expenses, the
as Uber/Lyft, taxi fare, bus
following needs to be provided:
fare, etc.)
• Medical, pharmacy, or counseling bill showing the name and
• Gas reimbursement for
address of the provider for the date of transportation. If a bill is
rental vehicles
not submitted, a letter from the provider on letterhead listing the
• Car rental (up to $30 per
dates of service including a statement verifying all services are
day)
directly related to the crime. For trips to pharmacy, the actual
• Parking expenses
prescription receipt or printout from pharmacy.
• If travel is 50 miles or more
• For reimbursement of travel costs to attend a court proceeding,
(one way) the following
copy of a subpoena or a letter from an appropriate court official
can be reimbursed:
who can verify that the individual attended the proceeding.
o Meals – up to $28
• Receipts, including the date of service, for public transportation.
per day ($6 for
• For travel over 50 miles, a bill for overnight accommodations for
breakfast, $6 for
hotel reimbursement. For meal reimbursement for travel over 50
lunch, and $16 for
miles, receipts showing items purchased with date/time.
dinner)
o Hotel – up to $75 The payment process:
• All required documentation must be received before any payments
per night
can be processed. The sooner VCAP receives the requested
information, the sooner any payments can be made by VCAP.
• If payment is owed to the provider, VCAP will send payment
If you have any questions
regarding eligibility or additional
directly to the provider. Payments owed to the provider are
services, please contact VCAP.
released from the PA Department of Treasury within 2-4 weeks of
being approved.
Telephone: (800) 233-2339
• Payments owed to the victim/claimant that total $5,000.00 or less
Fax: (717) 787-4306
are released within 2 business days of being approved. Any
Email: ra-davesupport@pa.gov
remaining portion above $5,000.00 is released from the PA
Department of Treasury within 2-4 weeks of being approved.

11/2023

