Apply for Victims' Compensation | Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Pennsylvania Office of Victim Services Apply for Victims' Compensation The Victims Compensation Assistance Program helps crime victims and their families by easing the crime's emotional and physical aftermath with financial assistance. Apply online Find help in your county Program overview The Pennsylvania Commission on Crime and Delinquency's (PCCD) Victims Compensation Assistance Program is designed to support individuals who have suffered physical, emotional, or financial harm due to a crime. This program offers financial aid for various expenses to help alleviate the financial burden on victims and their families. On average, VCAP receives over 12,000 new claims and pays an average $13 million per year on behalf of crime victims. VCAP is able to reimburse insurance co-pays, out-of-network expenses and other out-of-pocket costs. Who is eligible? To be eligible for compensation: The crime must have occurred in Pennsylvania. The crime was reported to the proper authorities or a Protection from Abuse Order , Sexual Violence Protection Order , or Protection from Intimidation Order was filed. The victim must cooperate with the police, courts, and the Victims Compensation Assistance Program. For crimes occurring on or after 9/8/2022, the claim must be filed within 5 years of the crime.  For crimes occurring prior to 9/8/2022, please contact the Program to determine filing requirements. The victim must have a minimum loss of at least $50 because of the crime (if you are less than 60 years old). Family members of an individual impacted by a crime may also be eligible for compensation. Eligible expenses Below are the expenses covered by the Victims Compensation Assistance Program (VCAP). Counseling Your counseling/therapy bills for a victim and certain family members may be considered for reimbursement. These family members include spouses, children, parents, siblings, grandparents, grandchildren, and in-laws (including mother, father, and sons, daughters, brothers or sisters in-law). Also includes step-relations. People living with you, your fiancée, or someone responsible for your welfare may be considered for reimbursement. Also, a person who sees a violent crime or finds the body of a murder victim may have their counseling/therapy bills paid. Counseling Expenses Flyer Crime-Scene Cleanup You may be reimbursed for the costs related to the reasonable and necessary costs of cleaning the crime scene of a private residence. Cleaning means to remove blood or stains, bodily fluids, food, paint or other materials used to deface property or other dirt or debris caused by the processing of the crime scene. Crime Scene Clean Up Brochure Forensic Rape Exams Pennsylvania law, 18 Pa. C.S. § 11.707, provides that the costs of the forensic rape examination and medications provided as a direct result of a sexual offense shall not be charged to the victim.  The victim of a sexual offense does not need to ‘report’ the sexual offense or ‘talk’ to law enforcement in order for the costs to be paid by VCAP. Hospitals or licensed health care providers requesting reimbursement of costs associated with a forensic rape examination must have given the forensic evidence to the police, district attorney’s office or the county children and youth services agency, in order for the payments to be considered. If the evidence was not given to one of those entities, the hospital or licensed health care provider may be responsible for the costs of the forensic rape examination and medications provided. Counties that have developed coordinating teams and implemented procedures to keep the ‘names’ of victims who have obtained forensic rape examinations anonymous must provide the name, address and date of birth of the victim on the claim form, in addition to the Anonymous Identification Number assigned to the forensic rape kit in order for the VCAP to reimburse the costs.  Please submit itemized bills, which include the victim's name showing eligible forensic rape examination costs. ​Forensic Rape Examination Claim Form Forensic Rape Examination Protocol and Billing Procedures Forensic Rape Examination Frequently Asked Questions Funeral Costs In homicide cases, any person who assumes the obligation or who pays for the funeral or burial expenses is eligible to file a claim for reimbursement of those costs. Reimbursement of costs may include burial, funeral service, memorial meal, flowers, burial clothing for the person who died, and other related expenses. Funeral Costs Flyer Loss of Earning If an individual is unable to work because of crime injuries, they may be eligible for reimbursement of lost pay. Additionally, if a victims family members were unable to work because they provided care for the victim or did things for you such as cleaning, cooking, laundry, grocery shopping, mowing, and childcare, etc., their loss of earnings may be reimbursed. Parents, children and the spouse of a murder victim may also apply for loss of earnings because they were unable to work in order to make funeral arrangements or due to mental trauma following the crime. Individuals may also be eligible for compensation if or a family member, or person who financially supported them, was murdered. For example, if a person that was murdered had been court ordered to pay or was paying child support before they were murdered; you may be eligible for a loss of support award for that child. Loss of Earning Flyer Loss of Earnings Homicide Flyer Loss of Support Individuals may also be eligible for compensation if or a family member, or person who financially supported them, was murdered. For example, if a person that was murdered had been court ordered to pay or was paying child support before they were murdered; you may be eligible for a loss of support award for that child. Loss of Support Flyer Medical Expenses Crime-related hospital, doctor, dentist, ambulance, physical therapy bills, medications, medical supplies, and equipment may be eligible for reimbursement. Additionally, tasks a victim can no longer compelte themselves because of crime injuries may be covered, such as cleaning, cooking, laundry, grocery shopping, mowing, and childcare expenses. Transportation costs to go for medical care may also be considered for reimbursement. Medical Expenses Flyer Relocation If a victim of a crime needs to immediately relocate for safety and health reasons, some moving costs may be reimbursed. Relocation Flyer Transportation An individual who incurs expenses traveling to or from a place for medical care, counseling, pharmacy or to attend a criminal justice proceeding, and for efforts that aid the investigation is eligible for reimbursement of travel expenses. A maximum payment of $35,000 per direct victim can be reimbursed for transportation expenses related to the crime. Transportation Expenses Transportation Expenses Homicide Flyer Stolen Benefit Cash If an individual's primary source of money comes from one of the following benefits, social security, pension/retirement, disability, or court-ordered child/spousal support, and money was stolen in a crime, they be eligible for reimbursement of up to one month of that benefit. Stolen Cash Flyer Sexual Assault Counseling Claims A direct victim of sexual abuse which occurred in Pennsylvania, who did not report or does not want to report the crime to authorities, is eligible to submit a claim for counseling services related to their abuse.  Direct victims of sexual abuse who do not meet other eligibility requirements to file a standard VCAP claim, or who may have been denied a VCAP claim in the past, are also eligible for this benefit. Sexual Assault Counseling Claim Sexual Assault Counseling Claim Fact Sheet More This list is not exhaustive of the coverage. If you have been victimized and would like financial assistance with an expense not listed above, call the Victims Compensation Assistance Program (800) 233-2339. Download the Crime Victims App Check the status of a claim or get help with the claim process. Apple Store Google Play How to file a claim 1 Get help from a victim advocate Get help from a victim advocate at a Victim Service Program. 2 Call the Victims Compensation Assistance Program Call VCAP at 1 (800) 233-2339. Language interpreters available at no cost. 3 Use the Crime Victims App File a claim online through the Crime Victims App - Apple Store | Google Play 4 Mail or email your claim Download the claim form and mail or email to to VCAP. VCAP resources Submit a claim online To streamline the process of submitting and processing claims under VCAP, PCCD has implemented the ability for victims/survivors, victim service providers, and allied professionals to automatically upload documents in the Dependable Access for Victimization Expenses portal (DAVE). Victims/survivors can upload documents by logging into DAVE using their claim number and pin number. They can also upload documents as they file their claim online. Victim service programs who have access to DAVE, can upload documents directly into the claim when they are filing a claim on behalf of the victim/survivor or after the claim has been filed. Allied professionals, such as law enforcement, medical providers, employers, counselors, funeral homes, etc., can upload documents directly into DAVE. Allied professionals must have, or register for, a Keystone Login Account to upload documents. Allied professionals will need to go to www.dave.pa.gov to login in or register for Keystone Login Account and upload documents to the claim. For allied professionals to upload documents they must have the victims first and last name as well as the claim number. Uploading documents into DAVE ensures instant transmission and expedites the processing of the claim providing a more streamlined process. Go Paperless with DAVE Flyer DAVE Portal Forms and resources Applications Compensation Claim Form Compensation Short Claim Form ​Forensic Rape Examination Claim Form Sexual Assault Counseling Claim Emergency Compensation Award Application Victim Compensation Waiver For Delayed Filing Due to Evidence Processing Delays Resources Victims Compensation Manual Victims Compensation Assistance Program Brochure (English) Victims Compensation Assistance Program Brochure (Spanish) Claim Process Information Supporting Survivors of Sexual Assault: Victim Compensation Assistance Program Brochure Resources for victim service providers Dependable Access for Victims' Expenses (DAVE) DAVE Basic Training Victims Compensation Manual Compensation Resource Guide for Allied Professionals Document library No results found for “ ” We couldn't find anything matching your search. Here are a few tips to improve your results: Check Your Spelling: Make sure all words are spelled correctly. Use Different Keywords: Try using alternative names or terms for what you're searching for. Clear Filters: Remove any filters that might be limiting your search results. Frequently asked questions Am I required to use my insurance benefits before applying for compensation? Majority of the time, yes. However, in certain circumstances, insurance may not have to be used. Can I get money for pain and suffering? No. Can I get money now? Yes, you can file an emergency award application. All documentation/verification must be done first, but you can be provided up to $5,000  for: Verified lost earnings Lost support Stolen benefit cash Crime-related bills you paid Can I get travel reimbursement? ‎ Yes, the program does reimburse the direct victim for: Travel to medical appointments Counseling visits Trips to the pharmacy for prescriptions for crime-related injuries For events involving travel to meet with law enforcement For court proceedings Filing of a protection from abuse order Can I still collect restitution? Yes, but you must repay the program any monies for expenses that were already paid by the program. This does not apply to restitution ordered by the court. It is for property damage or losses not covered by the program. Can my attorney charge me for helping me complete and file a compensation claim? ‎ No, the attorney may not bill you for the services related to the filing of a compensation claim. An attorney may bill the program for services that help you submit a claim after they make an award. Do I need to file a new claim if I have additional expenses? ‎ No, you can submit additional crime-related bills to the program at any time. It is important to write your claim number on any bills sent to the program. Do I need to report any award money received to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)? ‎ No, awards are not subject to reporting to the IRS. How long does it take the Program to make a decision? ‎ Most organizations process claims in 12 weeks or less. However, each claim is different and timeframes may vary. If I am injured at work as a result of a crime, am I still eligible for compensation? ‎ Yes, the program may reimburse losses not covered by Workers' Comp or other insurance. If I get money from the Program, does the offender get out of paying restitution? ‎ No, the offender must pay the restitution the court ordered and reimburse the program. If I miss work because of my injuries, can I get paid for my lost wages? ‎ Yes, your employer must verify the time missed. A doctor, dentist, or psychologist must certify that you were unable to work due to injuries from a crime. You may also need additional information. If I take off work to take my child to court, am I eligible for my loss of earnings? ‎ Yes, but someone must verify attendance. Please provide a copy of the subpoena or a letter from a court official or victim advocate. Is property damage eligible for compensation? ‎ No. Is there a limit on total compensation? ‎ Yes, there are different limits for the various types of benefits covered by the program. What if I don't have paycheck stubs, W-2s or tax returns , can I still apply for loss of earnings? ‎ Yes, you may still get an award for lost earnings. The program must get documents from your employer to verify your earnings. The program must be able to verify your actual earnings. Where does the money come from? ‎ Most of the money awarded to victims of crime comes from fines paid by convicted offenders.​ Contact Us If you need help navigating the claim process or to check on the status of a claim, contact PCCD's Victim Compensation Assistance Program. Call Email VCAP Assistance for Mass Violence VCAP can determine eligibility for compensation related to incidents where there is an intentional violent criminal act impacting a large number of people. Call Email