Example Program Requirements
• The victim was injured, was killed, was
threatened with physical injury or death,
or reasonably feared for their safety because
of a crime.

This information may not be used as a guarantee
of benefits. The Judicial Branch does not warrant
the accuracy of the information contained herein
nor is it responsible for any errors or omissions
and assumes no liability for its use.

• The victim did not cause the crime.
• If the crime involves a motor vehicle, the
criminal charge must show intent, such as
operating under the influence (commonly
known as DUI) or evading.
• The application is filed within 3 years of the
date of the crime (a waiver is available).
• The crime happened in Connecticut
(If you are a CT resident and the crime
occurred elsewhere, please contact OVS for
information about services).

ADA Accommodations
ADAProgram@jud.ct.gov
https://www.jud.ct.gov/ADA

• The crime was reported to police and the
victim cooperated with police (an exception
is available for victims of domestic violence,
sexual assault or human trafficking).
• The victim cooperates with the Victim
Compensation Program.

Benefit Amounts
• Physical injury up to $15,000
• Survivor benefits up to $25,000
• Emotional injury and child witnesses of
domestic violence up to $5,000

www.jud.ct.gov/crimevictim

JDP-VS-10 (Rev. 9/26) WCAG 2.2 AA

Crime Victim
Compensation
Program

The Judicial Branch Office of Victim Services
(OVS) Victim Compensation Program offers
financial help to crime victims, their relatives,
and other people who have a financial loss
because of a crime.
Victim compensation can pay for crimerelated expenses and losses that are not covered
by insurance, restitution, or other financial
sources. Documentation that relates the injury
and expense to the crime is required. There
is no time limit to using the compensation
funds once you have been found eligible
for compensation.

Assistance
Crime impacts everyone uniquely. The
information in this brochure is a summary
of services. Please contact OVS Victim
Compensation Program staff for more detailed
information and assistance. Staff are available
Monday to Friday, 8:00 am – 4:30 pm.
To receive an application or for more
information:
1-888-286-7347

Eligibility Examples

Eligible Expenses Continued

• A victim who experienced a physical injury
because of a crime.

• Funeral expenses (up to $6,000)

• A victim who was threatened with physical
injury or death, or reasonably feared for their
safety because of crime.
• A person who is an eligible relative of a
homicide victim.
• A person who is an eligible relative of a
sexual assault, domestic violence, or child
abuse victim.
• A child who witnessed domestic violence.
• A person who paid or is responsible to pay
for funeral expenses or the clean up of a
crime scene.
• A person who provided care to a personal
injury victim.
• A person with a disability who owns or keeps
a service animal that was injured or killed
during the crime.

Examples of Eligible Expenses
• Medical, dental, counseling, and prescription
expenses
• Complementary and alternative medicine

OVSCompensation@jud.ct.gov

• Medical equipment and surgical procedures

https://www.jud.ct.gov/crimevictim

• Up to $1,000 for crime scene cleanup,
security systems, or replacement of clothes
and bedding held as evidence

• For physical injury and homicide cases, lost
wages and travel expenses for the victim
and/or relatives to attend proceedings at
court, the Psychiatric Security Review
Board, and the Board of Pardons and Paroles
• For physical injury cases, lost wages because
of crime-related injuries or to care for
a victim
• For homicide cases, loss of support for
spouse or minor children and up to one
week of bereavement leave for the parent
or legal guardian
Property loss and damage, pain and suffering,
and travel to and from medical appointments
are not eligible expenses.

Other Assistance Available
OVS operates a statewide Helpline that
provides victims and their families with
information about the criminal justice process,
victim notification, victim rights, and referrals
to community and state agencies.
OVS Helpline staff are available Monday
to Friday, 8:00 am – 4:30 pm by contacting
1-800-822-8428 or OVS@jud.ct.gov.

