OHIO ATTORNEY GENERAL
INSTRUCTIONS FOR SEXUAL ASSAULT FORENSIC
EXAMINATION (SAFE) & HIV PROPHYLAXIS REIMBURSEMENT FORM
All exams must be conducted using the Ohio Sexual Assault Protocol for Sexual Assault Forensic
and Medical Examination.
 If a kit is conducted, it must be done so without omissions according to the directions
supplied in the kit. Once a kit is opened and it is determined components are missing,
either replace the missing items or open a new kit and retrieve the necessary items. You
may return incomplete kits to the distributing company for reimbursement (see Kit tab).
It is the responsibility of the medical provider to conduct all steps of the kit unless the
patient declines a step. Repeated instances of improper kit collection could result in
future ineligibility for reimbursement.
o The Ohio Department of Health and the Ohio Attorney General's Office have
approved the Ohio Department of Health designated kit. You can order kits from
TriTech at orders@tritechusa.com or 800.438.7884.
o Kits with missing components or problems should be reported to the Ohio
Department of Health (614-466-0230)
Billing
The Ohio Revised Code 2907.28 (B) states that “no costs incurred by a hospital or emergency
facility” for the collection of forensic evidence in sexual assault cases “shall be billed or charged
directly or indirectly to the victim or the victim’s insurer.”
o If an adult/adolescent patient presenting in the emergency department as a
victim of sexual assault is provided emergency contraception those costs are
billable to the patient/insurer (STI prophylaxis as part of SAFE reimbursement
and STI testing on adults is discouraged).
STI testing of minors (pediatric) is appropriate and is billable to the patient or their insurer.
A hospital or other emergency medical facility is required to bill the online SAFE Program
(SAFE Online Reimbursement) by submitting a Reimbursement Request Form and invoice for
each SAFE claim. A reimbursement request form shall be submitted no later than six (6)
months after the examination date. Failure to do so may result in a denial. Online SAFE
Reimbursement Form
o SAFE claims are viewed and paid monthly.
o A SAFE reimbursement is only paid one (1) time per assault/exam. If a
patient has a kit collected at a hospital and is later seen at a Child Advocacy
Center (CAC), unless there is agreement between facilities, the hospital kit
collection receives payment.
o If a patient previously had a kit collected and is assaulted on another date,
reimbursement can be submitted for the new evidence collection.
o If the submission has an error(s), an email will be sent to the Hospital

Coordinator with a request for correct information. If the requested
information is not provided within six months of the treatment date, it will
be denied for timeliness.
o All invoices are emailed monthly to preapproved Hospital Coordinators.
o Any claims sent via mail will be shredded upon receipt.
The SAFE Program will reimburse a hospital or medical facility according to Administrative Rule
109:7-1-02. that states “A hospital, children’s advocacy center, or other emergency medical
facility shall accept a flat fee payment of six hundred thirty two dollars ($632) as payment in full
for any cost incurred in conducting a medical examination and test of a victim of an offense
under any provision of section 2907.02 to 2907.06 of the Revised Code for the purpose of
gathering physical evidence for a possible prosecution of a person, including the cost of any
antibiotics administered as part of the examination.”
o A reimbursement request form for the forensic medical examination shall be
submitted online no later than six months (6) after the examination date. Failure
to do so may result in a denial. Online SAFE Reimbursement Form
Example 1: Patient presents to emergency department for SAFE. Patient assessed for sexual
trauma and no other injuries identified. Following is what is under SAFE and what is billable to
patient.
- Included in SAFE payment:
 ED Level Charge
 Physician and Examiner services
 Supplies used for evidence collection (extra swabs, sterile water,
lubricant, etc)
 STI Prophylaxis
 Pregnancy Testing
 HIV assessment and prophylaxis
 Anti-emetic
- Billable to Patient but under SAFE umbrella (not considered additional medical
service, thus not able to charge ED Level Charge or physician services):
 Emergency Contraception
 Pain Medication

Example 2: Patient presents to emergency department for SAFE. Patient assessed for sexual
trauma and possible injuries identified (e.g.; concussion, laceration, broken bone, internal
pain). Following is what is billable under SAFE and what is billable to patient.
- Included in SAFE payment:
 Examiner services
 Supplies used for evidence collection (extra swabs, sterile water,
lubricant, etc)
 STI Prophylaxis
 Pregnancy Testing
 Anti-emetic
- Billable to Patient:
 ED Level charge
 Physician charges
 Emergency Contraception
 Pain Medication
 All labs, patient admissions, blood draw, scans, x-rays, psych services,
HIV Prophylaxis
Administrative Code 109:7-1-02(B) was amended to include reimbursement for HIV prophylaxis
as part of the SAFE process when administered by the medical provider. The language is as
follows: “A hospital, children’s advocacy center, or other emergency medical facility shall
accept payment of the actual amount billed, not to exceed twenty-five hundred dollars
($2,500), as payment in full for any cost incurred in administration of HIV post-exposure
prophylaxis protocol.
 The primary purpose, per the OAG interpretation of Administrative Code 109:7-102(B), is to ensure that “all victims of sexual assault have access to the full regimen of
HIV post-exposure prophylaxis.” The Centers for Disease Control have found that
providing the patient the full 28-day regimen “increase[s] the likelihood of adherence,
especially when patients find returning for multiple follow-up visits difficult.”
Guidelines, VII-E1, see also VI-E.
In order to be eligible for full reimbursement under 109:7-1-02(B) you must provide a
medically-appropriate regimen to the patient prior to release from the medical facility.
Failure to do so will result in a denial for reimbursement.
o A hospital or other emergency medical facility shall bill the SAFE Program by
submitting the HIV Reimbursement Form online with the itemized invoice at the
time they submit for SAFE reimbursement. The form must be loaded along with
the SAFE itemized statement. HIV Reimbursement Form

o Due to possible ongoing care provided after initial treatment, healthcare
facilities may bill for HIV prophylaxis as services are rendered, up to 6 months
post treatment and up to $2500. Reimbursement covers HIV risk exposure
assessment, pregnancy testing, rapid HIV testing, labs, physician services, 28-day
prophylaxis, and anti-emetic medication.
-

If patient chooses not to have HIV prophylaxis at the time of SAFE and
returns within the 72-hour post-exposure window, reimbursement covers
the ED Level charge, HIV risk exposure assessment, pregnancy testing,
rapid HIV testing, labs, physician services, 28-day prophylaxis, and antiemetic medication.

o If the patient presents for follow-up services at the same medical facility after
the initial treatment date and have not exceeded the $2500 max allowable, the
charges can be submitted to SAFE for reimbursement using the HIV
Reimbursement Supplemental Form. HIV Supplemental Reimbursement Form
 Physicians* and other medical providers shall seek reimbursement for services provided
as part of the SAFE (i.e., evidence collection, diagnosis, prescriptions, HIV assessment,
etc.) from the hospital or other medical facility where the exam is conducted and shall
not bill the SAFE Program, the patient, or their insurer.
*It is the responsibility of the medical facility to establish the process by which
physicians will be reimbursed from the SAFE payment.
 Reimbursement for collection of evidence from a suspect is not covered under the SAFE
Program. Payment should be sought through the appropriate law enforcement agency.
 Payment for both SAFE and HIV Prophylaxis is paid once a month via direct deposit.
Read the following instructions to insure the Ohio Sexual Assault Protocol for Sexual Assault
Forensic and Medical Examination is followed and the exam is reimbursable by the SAFE
Program. If you have additional questions contact the SAFE Program at 614-466-4797.
The following steps correlate to the numbered boxes on the reimbursement form. In order to
receive your reimbursement in a timely manner, please follow the directions for each question.
Failure to answer all questions completely may result in a denial.
1. Name and address of medical facility providing evaluation will populate upon entering
login and password.
2. Facility SAFE Account number will populate upon entering login and password.
3. Name of healthcare professional(s) conducting examination.

4. Indicate if the primary examiner named in box 3 is an expert in pediatric sexual abuse. The
Ohio Attorney General's Office (OAG), the Ohio Chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics,
and the Ohio Chapter of the International Association of Forensic Nurses developed criteria
(Appendix 5) for health care providers performing forensic medical exams on suspected
pediatric sexual abuse cases where a genital exam is conducted, but no kit is collected due to
disclosure occurring outside of the 72-hour timeframe. In order to receive reimbursement from
the SAFE Program, the individual performing the exam must submit a resume/CV detailing their
expertise in pediatric sexual abuse and be approved by the OAG.
5. Patient name. If the adult patient chooses not to report to law enforcement and asks that
their identity be kept completely confidential, a reimbursement form submitted on behalf of
“Jane/John Doe” is an acceptable submission.
6. Patient Gender Identity - Please check one option based on the response provided by the
patient. See corresponding definitions below (from Human Rights Campaign, Sexual
Orientation and Gender Identity: Terminology and Definitions.
http://www.hrc.org/issues/gender_identity_terms_definitions.asp):
The term "gender identity” refers to a person's innate, deeply felt psychological identification
as male or female, which may or may not correspond to the person's body or designated sex at
birth.
The term “transgender” refers to a broad range of people who experience and/or express their
gender differently from what most people expect — either in terms of expressing a gender that
does not match the sex listed on their original birth certificate (i.e., designated sex at birth), or
physically changing their sex. It is an umbrella term that includes people who are transsexual,
cross-dressers or otherwise gender non-conforming.
7. Patient date of birth.
8. The patient’s medical record number must be provided. In cases where a medical record
number is not used, provide the first six digits of the patient’s social security number. The same
identification number must appear on both the reimbursement form and itemized statement.
9. Date/Time of Abuse/Assault – If the exam occurs within 96 hours (four full days) postassault for an adult and 72 hours (3 full days) for a minor, evidence should always be collected.
If a kit is collected, a specific date and time is required to confirm it was completed within the
required timeframe. If an exact date is unknown, provide an estimated range of dates based
upon the best information available (ex., December 2015, Summer 2010). Situations where this
may be necessary would include cases with young children or adult patients who present with
cognitive disabilities such as developmental delays or dementia and are unable to provide an
exact date of assault. Any forms for an adult marked with “unknown” will be denied.

There are cases in which evidence should be collected beyond 96 hours. Examples include
where the patient was unconscious or sedentary or where an exam may corroborate chronic
injury or excessive force related to the sexual assault. Documentation must clearly justify the
reasoning for the forensic collection as it relates to the sexual assault. Documentation does not
guarantee payment by the SAFE Program.
10. Treatment Date/Time – The date/time when the treatment of the patient began.
11. Indicators of sexual assault - Document which indicators/history the patient (or guardian)
presented with and why sexual assault/abuse was suspected and an exam conducted. In cases
of suspected drug facilitated sexual assault in which the victim’s memory may be impaired,
document why the patient believes they were assaulted.


Indicators must reflect why a SAFE was conducted. “Patient reported, patient disclosed,
patient history” is insufficient indicators.

12. Was an Evidence Kit Collected?
12a. If yes, answer the question Which Law Enforcement Agency received the report, if
applicable?
If no, answer the questions:
o Why was no evidence kit collected? Open box for response.
o Were other services provided? Yes No
If yes, answer the question Which Services were Provided? (check all
that apply)
Genital Exam
Medical History
Remote Technology Consultation
o Which Law Enforcement Agency received the report, if applicable? A dropdown box will appear with all agencies listed. If the agency is not listed due to
the crime being committed out of state, it is not billable to Ohio SAFE.
If patient is a minor and no kit was collected, choose a law enforcement agency
only if a report was filed. Otherwise a Children Services Agency must receive a
report unless otherwise noted in the Indicators field why a report was not made
(see Question #13).
Law enforcement reporting – Ohio Revised Code (ORC) 2921.22 (A) & (B)
(see page 7) requires health care providers report a sexual assault to law enforcement
whether a patient chooses to speak with law enforcement or not. If the adult patient
chooses to remain unnamed, the provider is mandated to provide the date, time, and
general location the assault took place, but not the patient’s name or other identifiers.

The sexual assault forensic exam and reimbursement is not dependent on the patient
cooperating with law enforcement.
Law enforcement reporting or public children services agency - ORC 2151.421 (A)(1)(a)
& (b) (see page 5) mandates that all health care providers report child abuse or neglect;
investigation and follow-up procedures are the responsibility of either law enforcement
or child protective services. Patients 17 years of age and younger are ineligible to file an
unnamed report. Any submitted reimbursements in which a report is not made to law
enforcement and/or child protective services by the medical provider may result in a
denial.
13. Is the patient under the age of 18? Yes No
If yes, answer the question Which Child Protective Agency received the report, if applicable?
14. Drug facilitated sexual assault –If Drug Facilitated Sexual Assault (DFSA) is suspected, it is
strongly recommended that a urine sample is collected per the DFSA Protocol (Appendix 9).
Drug/alcohol use includes voluntary ingestion.
15. Was a Drug Facilitated Sexual Assault (DFSA) kit collected per the Ohio Sexual Assault
Protocol for Sexual Assault Forensic and Medical Examinations (Indicate if a DFSA sample was
collected)? Yes No
16. Was Human Trafficking Suspected?


If yes, Why was Human Trafficking Suspected?

17. Incarcerated Patients – All patients confined in a county, city, or federal jail or prison, or in
any other institution maintained and operated by the Dept. of Rehabilitation and Corrections or
Youth Services.
Itemized Statement Submissions - The itemized statement is required to display a dollar
amount charge for services detailed as:
 sexual assault forensic examination; or
 sexual assault evidence collection kit; or
 SANE exam; or
 genital/anal examination and photodocumentation; and
 antibiotic prescription or any prophylaxis given to the patient to prevent sexually
transmitted infections.
 Pregnancy testing
 Anti-nausea medication
 HIV prophylaxis, labs
Language such as “emergency room” or “emergency room visit” or “clinic” do not sufficiently

detail that the services were provided during the sexual assault examination and may result in a
denial.
The Ohio Hospital Association has approved Revenue Code 0929 to be used with “Emergency
Level” in lieu of “SAFE, SANE, Forensic Exam” etc.
The itemized statement must include the patient name and medical record number and/or first
six digits of the social security number. If the itemized statement does not match the
information submitted on the reimbursement form, it may result in a denial (e.g., incorrect
patient name, DOB, or treatment dates noted on reimbursement form and invoice that are
different).
Periodically, chart audits will be performed to determine compliance with the Ohio Sexual
Assault Protocol for Sexual Assault Forensic and Medical Examination and the OAG
reimbursement policy.
The patient should be encouraged to fill out an application for the Crime Victims
Compensation Fund to determine eligibility for reimbursement of medical and other expenses.
Provide patient with enclosed Crime Victims Compensation card.
18. Submit for SAFE reimbursement– All reimbursements for the SAFE Program must be
submitted online at SAFE Online Reimbursement Link with the patient’s itemized statement.
19. Submission for HIV Prophylaxis Supplemental Form – All reimbursements for HIV
Prophylaxis must be submitted online at safe@ohioattorneygeneral.gov with the patient’s
itemized statement.

All questions regarding submission should be directed to the SAFE Program at
(614) 466-4797.

2011 Ohio Sexual Assault Protocol for Sexual Assault Forensic and Medical Examination mandated
examination components.
15 or under
No suspicion of sexual contact or penetration,* ejaculation, or the presence of other bodily
substances (ex. saliva, urine, blood, emesis, etc)
Procedures billable to patient.
Suspicion of sexual contact** but no penetration, ejaculation, or the presence of other bodily
substances (ex. saliva, urine, blood, emesis, etc) and
Last incident less than 72 hours - Kit billable to SAFE;
- or Last incident greater than 72 hours – Genital exam*** is billable to SAFE.
Suspicion of penetration, ejaculation, or the presence of other bodily substances (ex. saliva, urine,
blood, emesis, etc) and
Last incident less than 72 hours – Kit billable to SAFE;
- or –
Last incident between 72 and 96 hours – Kit or genital exam*** is billable to SAFE.
- or –
Last incident greater than 96 hours - genital exam*** is billable to SAFE.
16 or 17
No suspicion of sexual contact or penetration, ejaculation, or the presence of bodily substances (ex.
saliva, urine, blood, emesis, etc)
Procedures billable to patient.
Suspicion of sexual contact or penetration, ejaculation, or the presence of other bodily substances (ex.
saliva, urine, blood, emesis, etc) and
Last incident less than 96 hours - Kit billable to SAFE;
- or Multiple incidents greater than 96 hours - genital exam*** is billable to SAFE;
- or Single incident greater than 96**** - procedures billable to patient.
18 and over
Last incident less than 96 hours – kit billable to SAFE
Last incident(s) greater than 96 hours**** - procedures billable to patient

* “Penetration” means vaginal intercourse; anal intercourse, fellatio, and cunninlingus between persons regardless
of sex; and, without privilege to do so, the insertion of any part of the body or any instrument, apparatus, or other
object into the vaginal or anal opening of another.
** “Sexual contact” means any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including without limitation the thigh,
genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexual arousal or
gratification, without privilege to do so. An exam is billable to the SAFE program if the exam occurred for the
purpose of gathering physical evidence for a possible prosecution. Physical evidence may include semen, saliva,
blood, sweat, hairs, vaginal secretions or other materials potentially transferred during a sexual contact.
*** All genital exams must be performed by an approved physician, advanced practice nurse, or registered nurse
who is an expert in pediatric sexual abuse (see Ohio American Academy of Pediatrics and International Sexual
Assault Nurse Examiners established criteria in Appendix 5).
**** See page 1 of the Protocol for extenuating circumstances allowing evidence collection greater than 96 hours
for adults and older adolescents.

