Section 2743.62 - Ohio Revised Code | Ohio Laws Skip to main content Back To Top Top The Legislative Service Commission staff updates the Revised Code on an ongoing basis, as it completes its act review of enacted legislation.
		Updates may be slower during some times of the year, depending on the volume of enacted legislation. Section 2743.62 | Privilege - mental and physical examinations. Ohio Revised Code / Title 27 Courts-General Provisions-Special Remedies / Chapter 2743 Court Of Claims Effective: July 10, 2014 Latest Legislation: House Bill 261 - 130th General Assembly PDF: Download Authenticated PDF (A)(1) Subject to division (A)(2) of this  section, there is no privilege, except the privileges arising from  the attorney-client relationship, as to communications or records  that are relevant to the physical, mental, or emotional condition  of the claimant or victim in a proceeding under sections 2743.51 to 2743.72 of the Revised Code in which that condition is an  element. (2)(a) Except as specified in division (A)(2)(b) of this  section, any record or report that the court of claims or the  attorney general has obtained prior to, or obtains on or after,  June 30, 1998, under the provisions of sections 2743.51 to 2743.72 of the Revised Code and that is confidential or otherwise exempt  from public disclosure under section 149.43 of the Revised Code  while in the possession of the creator of the record or report  shall remain confidential or exempt from public disclosure under  section 149.43 of the Revised Code while in the possession of the  court of claims or the attorney general. (b) Notwithstanding division (A)(2)(a) of this section, a  judge of the court of claims, a magistrate, a claimant, a  claimant's attorney, or the attorney general may disclose or refer  to records or reports described in that division in any hearing  conducted under sections 2743.51 to 2743.72 of the Revised Code or  in the judge's, magistrate's, claimant's, or attorney general's  written pleadings, findings, recommendations, and decisions. (B) If the mental, physical, or emotional condition of a  victim or claimant is material to a claim for an award of  reparations, the attorney general or the court of claims may order  the victim or claimant to submit to a mental or physical  examination and may order an autopsy of a deceased victim. The  order may be made for good cause shown and upon notice to the  person to be examined and to the claimant. The order shall specify  the time, place, manner, conditions, and scope of the examination  or autopsy and the person by whom it is to be made. In the case of  a mental examination, the person specified may be a physician or  psychologist. In the case of a physical examination, the person  specified may be a physician, a physician assistant, a clinical  nurse specialist, a certified nurse practitioner, or a certified  nurse-midwife. In the case of an autopsy, the person specified  must be a physician. The order shall require the person who  performs the examination or autopsy to file with the attorney  general a detailed written report of the examination or autopsy.  The report shall set out the findings, including the results of  all tests made, diagnoses, prognoses, and other conclusions and  reports of earlier examinations of the same conditions. (C) On request of the person examined, the attorney general  shall furnish the person a copy of the report. If the victim is  deceased, the attorney general, on request, shall furnish the  claimant a copy of the report. (D) The attorney general or the court of claims may require  the claimant to supplement the application for an award of  reparations with any reasonably available medical or psychological  reports relating to the injury for which the award of reparations  is claimed. (E) The attorney general or the court of claims, in a claim  arising out of a violation of any provision of sections 2907.02 to 2907.07 of the Revised Code, shall not request the victim or the  claimant to supply, or permit any person to supply, any evidence  of specific instances of the victim's sexual activity, opinion  evidence of the victim's sexual activity, or reputation evidence  of the victim's sexual activity unless it involves evidence of the  origin of semen, pregnancy, or disease or evidence of the victim's  past sexual activity with the offender and only to the extent that  the court of claims or the attorney general finds that the  evidence is relevant to a fact at issue in the claim. Available Versions of this Section July 10, 2014 – House Bill 261 - 130th General Assembly [ View July 10, 2014 Version ]