Apply for Victims Compensation - Ohio Attorney General Publications FAQ Media Contact Search: Individuals and Families > Victims > Apply for Victims Compensation Apply for Victims Compensation If you or your family members are innocent victims of a violent crime, financial assistance may be available. We pay for a wide range of expenses such as medical counseling bills, work loss, and funeral expenses. We generally can't pay for property expenses. Log in to the Crime Victim's Compensation Portal to manage an existing claim. Filing a new claim Two options for filing a claim Guidelines If you haven't filed a claim, and each of the following statements is TRUE, then you may be eligible for help from this program: The crime was reported to law enforcement. The victim cooperated with requests of law enforcement. The victim was not committing a criminal act that caused or contributed to the injuries, except in homicide claims. The victim has incurred expenses that are not fully covered by collateral sources (such as workers' comp, life insurance, medical insurance, etc.). I am either the victim, the dependent of a homicide victim, or responsible for some of the victim's expenses. Register and file a claim application online. Download and print an application , fill it out and mail it to Crime Victim Services Section 30 E. Broad Street, 26th Floor Columbus, OH 43215, or fax it to 614-752-2732 or 855-229-0600. New applications can also be emailed to CrimeVictimsCompensationApplications@OhioAGO.gov but they must be attached as a PDF or Word document . No  photos or screenshots of the pages will be accepted. Download a supplemental application Who may be eligible to receive reimbursement for expenses: Victims injured as result of violent crime. Dependents of homicide victims. Claimants responsible for crime victims’ expenses, such as parents or guardians. Who may not be eligible to receive reimbursement for expenses: Offenders or accomplices of offenders. Victims whose crimes are not reported to law enforcement. Victims who do not fully cooperate with law enforcement. Victims who committed criminal or tortious acts that contributed to their injuries. Reimbursement can cover: Medical and related expenses. Counseling for immediate family members of victims of homicide, sexual assault, or domestic violence. Wages lost because of the crime. Crime scene cleanup for personal security, such as doors and windows. The cost to replace items taken as evidence. The cost to replace items of clothing damaged as a result of medical treatment or assessment. Reimbursement for hearing aids, eyeglasses or other vision aids, dental appliances, teeth or other dental aids, canes, walkers, wheelchairs, and other mobility equipment. Lost wages and travel expenses for family members of a deceased victim to attend court proceedings. Financial support for dependents of a deceased victim. Funeral and burial expenses. The maximum total payments are limited to $50,000, and several expenses have caps. Payments cannot be made for pain and suffering or for stolen, damaged, or lost property. The Attorney General’s Office will not reimburse victims for expenses that can be covered by any other available sources, such as insurance. Changes to the compensation program, as of March 2, 2022: A claim must be filed within 3 years of the date of the crime on which it is based, unless the claimant is a minor. If the claimant is a minor then he or she has until their 24th birthday to file an application. Criminal backgrounds are no longer considered disqualifiers. Possession of a felony drug at the time of the underlying incident is no longer a disqualifier. Applicants who were previously disqualified based on their criminal background or drug possession may refile their application, provided that the date of the underlying crime was no more than 3 years from reapplication. INDIVIDUALS & FAMILIES Consumers Human Trafficking Initiative Military & Veterans Parents Seniors Task Force on Criminal Justice and Mental Illness Tipster Victims BUSINESS & DEVELOPMENT Background Check Collections Professional Solicitors & Fundraisers Services for Bingo Services for Business Services for Charities LAW ENFORCEMENT Bureau of Criminal Investigation Concealed Carry Missing Persons Ohio Law Enforcement Gateway Ohio Organized Crime Investigations Commission Ohio Peace Officer Training Academy SAK Annual Reporting Unsolved Homicides LEGAL COMMUNITY Antitrust Ballot Initiative and Referendum Outside Counsel Prosecution Sunshine Laws STATE & LOCAL GOVERNMENT Opinions Ohio School Threat Assessment Training Schools The Mount Vernon Project: School of Public Service ABOUT THE AGO Attorney General Administration Public Records Access Regional Offices Service Divisions SERVICES Webcheck Community Listing Charitable Registration Tobacco Enforcement TRAINING & EDUCATION Charitable Webinars Online Sunshine Laws Training OPOTA Courses Victim Service Provider Training MEDIA Events News Releases Newsletters Reports Videos CAREER & EMPLOYEE RESOURCES AG Employee Portal myOhio.gov Job Opportunities