Minnesota Crime Victims Reimbursement Program | Minnesota Department of Public Safety Skip to main content Home Our Divisions Office of Justice Programs For Crime Victims Crime Victims Minnesota Crime Victims Reimbursement Program For crime victims Finding help Minnesota Crime Victims Reimbursement Program Crime victim rights Minnesota Crime Victims Reimbursement Program If you or someone you know has been the victim of a violent crime, the Minnesota Crime Victims Reimbursement Program may be able to help. The reimbursement program provides financial help to victims and their families for losses incurred as a result of the crime. Apply for reimbursement through the Victim Services Portal Program overview What is the Crime Victims Reimbursement Board? Who is eligible to apply? What types of crimes are covered? What expenses may be paid by the Crime Victims Reimbursement Board? What are the eligibility requirements? Benefits available Expenses for injured victims of crime Expenses for family members of injured victims Expenses for family members of deceased victims Expenses for witnesses who saw or heard crime or found homicide victim Apply for reimbursement Online portal Application form Reimbursement forms and resources Financial help information in English Financial help information in Spanish Mileage reimbursement request form in English Mileage reimbursement request form in Spanish History The Minnesota Crime Victims Reimbursement Board, formerly called the Minnesota Crime Victims Reparations Board, is a state program that was established by the Legislature in 1974 to help victims with their financial losses and aid in their recovery from a violent crime. Our mission is to reduce the economic impact of violent crime on victims and their families by providing direct financial assistance; and to hold criminal offenders accountable for the costs of crime through improved collection of restitution and civil awards. The Minnesota Crime Victims Reparations Program was renamed the Minnesota Crime Victims Reimbursement Program in 2023. Contact We are located in St. Paul at 445 Minnesota St., Suite 2300. You can email us or call us at 651-201-7300 or 888-622-8799 . Original text Rate this translation Your feedback will be used to help improve Google Translate