1

OFFICE OF CLAIMS AND APPEALS
SEXUAL ASSAULT EXAMINATION PROGRAM
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
What does the SAEP do?
The program pays for the collection of evidence and pays for basic medical treatment for patients who
present for a sexual assault exam.
What does the SAEP not pay for?
Expenses not related to the examination process (e.g., ambulance expenses, follow-up care,
hospitalizations, surgical procedures, and triage). In such cases, the victim may file a separate claim
for these expenses with the CVCB program.
Who can file a claim with SAEP?
Any legally registered medical provider or as noted by KRS 216B.400(9), the hospital, the sexual
assault examination facility, the physician, the pharmacist, the health department, the sexual assault
nurse examiner, and other qualified medical professional.
How much may be paid by the SAEP?
The actual cost but not to exceed the following amounts set in the administrative regulations 107 KAR
2:010:
SAFE Exam: Facility - $250, Lab - $100, Examiner - $200, Meds - $100
HIV Prophylaxis: Initial exam; Lab - $150, Starter Kit - $200, Anti-nausea - $30
1st Follow up: Exam $50, Labs $50, Meds $600
2nd Follow up: Exam $50, Labs $90
3rd Follow up: Exam $50, Labs $75
Children’s Advocacy Center (CAC) Fee: Up to $894
Can the patient or sexual assault victim file a claim with SAEP?
No. It is unlawful for the patient to be billed for these services. It is the responsibility of the
medical provider to file a claim with SAEP.
What happens if, as a medical provider, we bill the patient for sexual assault examination
services?
Kentucky law provides that any provider that bills a patient in contravention of KRS 216B.400 (9) may
be fined. KRS 216B.400(9) specifically provides that "No charge shall be made to the victim for these
examinations, either by the hospital, the sexual assault examination facility, the physician, the sexual
assault nurse examiner, the victim's insurance carrier, or the Commonwealth."
What if as a physician I attend to the victim in the E.R, order the forensic exam but I do not do
the exam, can I still be paid by the SAEP?
No, the SAEP pays the Examiner who performs the actual exam.
Revised 11/2023

2

Will the SAEP pay for other services like Radiology, Pathology, X-ray exams or any other
treatments of injuries to the patient due to the sexual assault?
No. The SAEP pays for the examiner's fees, Facility fees, Labs, Meds, and HIV prophylaxis. The patient
may file a separate claim with CVCB.
What needs to be submitted to SAEP to get payment?
Hospitals and Medical Centers: The SAFE Forms which include the SAFE Exam/Treatment Billing
Form (2 pages) and the SAFE Evidentiary Report; the UB-04 and in cases where the patient has
insurance, the Explanation of Benefits (E.O.B).
In cases where the patient has been prescribed HIV Prophylaxis, the HIV Forms (Initial Exam, First
Follow Up, Second Follow Up and Third Follow Up) should be filled out when the medication is
dispensed or when the follow up exams are done. If the HIV meds are not going to be filled out at the
same facility, the patient must be given the Treatment Voucher (completely filled out) and the HIV
Forms so that they are not charged by the Pharmacy.
Pharmacies must completely fill out the relevant HIV forms including all the information about the
Federal Tax I.D and where the payment will be sent. Pharmacies must submit itemized billing
statements clearly showing the amount covered by the Insurance and the outstanding balance.
Child Advocacy Centers (CACs) ONLY must submit the Comprehensive Child Sexual Abuse
Medical Exam/Treatment Billing Form and the itemized bills and E.O.B’s.
All the forms must be COMPLETELY filled out in all sections to be considered complete. Failure
to fill out all sections on any of the forms will result in the claim being denied.
How do we submit SAEP claims?
Claims can be mailed, e-mailed or submitted via fax. The mailing address is 500 Mero St., 2SC1,
Frankfort, KY 40601; the fax number is (502) 573-4817; and the email addresses are
cathy.greene@ky.gov or crimevictims@ky.gov.
Where do we find the SAFE Forms?
From the Office of Claims and Appeals website at http://kycc.ky.gov
Can a SAEP claim be denied?
Yes.

•
•
•
•

If there is no bill submitted,
If the SAFE forms are not completely filled out,
If any page of the SAFE Forms is missing,
If obsolete SAFE Forms are used,

Revised 11/2023

•
•
•

3

If insurance pays above the regulated amounts for SAEP,
If the Evidentiary report shows that the exam was not fully completed,
If the UB-04 or E.O.B has not been submitted.

Note: An incomplete form might include: examiner name not printed, no examiner signature, no
examiner license number.
If we submit a claim or a bill and there is something missing, will we receive notice or some
communication?
It is your responsibility to ensure that you submit everything that is required. Efforts will be made to
communicate but it is best to ensure all required documents are submitted. Please call before submission
to ensure you are submitting all the required documents. After submission, always follow up with a call to
(502) 782-8253 or e-mail at cathy.greene@ky.gov to check on the status of your claim. It is also best to
ensure that there are contact people that we can easily call or e-mail to communicate with about your
claims.
Will a claim be paid if the patient declines a forensic exam but accepts medication?
No, a complete exam has to be performed for payment to be made.
Will a claim be paid if a forensic exam is started but not completed for whatever reason like the
patient saying it is painful?
No, a complete exam has to be performed for payment to be made
Can we bill the patient's Insurance?
Yes. If a patient has insurance, whether Medicaid or Private insurance, that insurance should be billed
first before billing the SAEP, but no co-pay or deductible may be charged as a condition for payment.
Is the patient required to report the assault to the police to get sexual assault services or for the
SAEP to pay the claim?
A sexual assault victim is not required to report to law enforcement to receive sexual assault related
services and the SAEP will pay any claims that are complete.
If the SAEP program denies a claim, can we re-bill to the patient?
No. Again, be advised that KRS 216B.400(9) specifically provides that "No charge shall be made to the
victim for these examinations, either by the hospital, the sexual assault examination facility, the physician,
the sexual assault nurse examiner, the victim's insurance carrier, or the Commonwealth."
What are the Statutes that are relevant for the Sexual Assault Exam Program (SAEP)?

Revised 11/2023

4

KRS 216B.400; 502 KAR 12, Section 3; and 802 KAR 3:020. A link leading to KRS 216B.400 is
available on the website under the Sexual Assault Program heading on bullet point titled 2013 Statutory
Revision Regarding Service Provider Filial of Claims
Whom should we contact with any questions about the Board's SAEP Program?
Questions regarding the Board’s SAEP Program can be forwarded to either Staff Attorneys Shelby Bevins
Sullivan at sbevinssullivan@ky.gov / (502) 782-3556 or the Sexual Assault Examination Program
Coordinator Cathy Greene at cathy.greene@ky.gov / (502) 782-8253

Revised 11/2023

