49.340 Investigation of claim -- Examination of records and reports -- Hearing -Expenses of hearings outside offices -- Order -- Appeal.
(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

A claim, when accepted for filing, shall be assigned by the executive director of the
Office of Claims and Appeals to an investigator for investigation. All claims arising
from the death of an individual as a direct result of a crime shall be considered
together.
The investigator to whom a claim is assigned shall examine the papers filed in
support of the claim and the validity of the claim. The investigation shall include
but not be limited to an examination of police, court, and official records and
reports concerning the crime. On or after July 1, 2025, the investigator's report shall
be completed within one hundred twenty (120) days of the assignment of the claim.
On or after July 1, 2026, the investigator's report shall be completed within ninety
(90) days of the assignment of the claim. If the report is not completed within the
time required under this subsection, the investigator shall notify the claimant of the
reason for the delay.
If the mental, physical, or emotional condition of a victim or claimant is material to
a claim, the board may order the victim or claimant to submit to a mental or
physical examination by a physician or psychiatrist, and may order an autopsy of a
deceased victim. A report upon an examination shall be filed with the investigator
setting out findings, including results of all tests made, diagnosis, prognosis, and
other conclusions.
Claims shall be investigated and determined, regardless of whether the alleged
criminal has been apprehended or prosecuted for or convicted of any crime based
upon the same incident, or has been acquitted, or found not guilty of the crime in
question owing to criminal irresponsibility or other legal exemption.
Upon completion of the investigator's report, the claim shall be assigned to a board
member who may decide the claim in favor of a claimant in the amount claimed on
the basis of the papers filed in support thereof and the report of the investigation of
the claim within thirty (30) days of the assignment of the claim. If the board
member is unable to decide the claim upon the basis of the documents and the
report, a hearing shall be ordered.
The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with KRS Chapter 13B and may be
held at any location within the Commonwealth, with a view to securing opportunity
for crime victims to appear before it with as little inconvenience and expense as
practicable. When any member of the board is attending hearings at any place other
than Frankfort, Kentucky, expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of that
duty shall be paid by the state upon certification by the executive director of the
Office of Claims and Appeals of an itemized statement of expenses in accordance
with Finance and Administration Cabinet administrative regulations.
After examining the papers filed in support of the claim and the report of
investigation, and after a hearing, if any, the board member to whom the claim was
assigned shall issue a recommended order either granting an award pursuant to KRS
49.370 or deny the claim. The board shall review the recommended order and any
exceptions filed to it, and shall by majority vote issue a final order.
A final order of the board may be appealed by filing a petition for judicial review in

the county where the claim accrued or in Franklin Circuit Court in accordance with
KRS Chapter 13B.
Effective: July 15, 2024
History: Amended 2024 Ky. Acts ch. 67, sec. 5, effective July 15, 2024. -- Amended
2021 Ky. Acts ch. 185, sec. 41, effective June 29, 2021. -- Repealed, reenacted,
renumbered, and amended 2017 Ky. Acts ch. 74, sec. 34, effective June 29, 2017. -Amended 1996 Ky. Acts ch. 318, sec. 329, effective July 15, 1996. -- Amended 1990
Ky. Acts ch. 409, sec. 5, effective July 13, 1990. -- Created 1976 Ky. Acts ch. 263,
sec 8.
Formerly codified as KRS 346.080.

