Rent and Relocation Reimbursement | Office of the Attorney General Skip to main content Español About News Opinions Careers Contact Us Search Menu × Child Support Your Online Account Back to top of menu Your Online Account Paying and Receiving Child Support About Your Online Account Agency Partners Child Support Enforcement Pro­grams and Initiatives Child Support Guidelines Review Crime Victims Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Back to top of menu Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Victims of Crime Crime Victims’ Compensation Program How May We Help You? Advocate Resources Consumer Protection File a Consumer Complaint Back to top of menu File a Consumer Complaint Automotive Scams Common Scams Equifax Identity Theft Seniors and the Elderly Open Government 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Back to top of menu 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Governmental Bodies How to Request an Attorney General Opinion Members of the Public Open Meetings Act Suspension Updates Open Records Complaint Open Reports and Publications Job Listings All Divisions Opinions Initiatives File a Complaint About Contact us Español Escape Rent and Relo­ca­tion Reimbursement Do you need help getting out of a home where you are not safe? You may be eligible for compensation to help with rent and moving costs. Here's what you need to know: Too often people who have suffered violent crimes think they don’t have the option to move to a home where they can feel safe. The Crime Victims' Compensation Program might be able to help pay your moving costs. Examples of costs that can be covered are: Emergency or temporary lodging (up to 14 days) Monthly rent Professional mover Rental/pet deposits Storage expenses (between the crime and the move) Transportation costs Utility connections, deposits, and transfer fees Van/truck rental You have three years from the date of the crime to relocate. Who can get help? You may receive assistance if you qualify for the Crime Victims’ Compensation Program and were a victim of one of the following crimes: Domestic violence Family violence Dating violence Sexual assault in your home Stalking Human trafficking The attempted murder of a child in their home Victims of crimes other than those listed above may also qualify for assistance if there is a crime-related health or safety need to relocate. You will need to fill out the Relocation Request form in these instances . How much can the Compensation Program cover? Our program will pay up to $5,000 for relocation deposits, moving expenses, and rent for crimes after 8/31/2023 . For crimes prior to 9/1/2023 , up to $2,000 for relocation deposits and moving expenses plus three months of rent up to $1,800 in rent is available. How do I receive Relocation Assistance? Apply for the CVC Program : Apply online or by mail. We'll guide you through each step. Get Notified of Eligibility : If your application is approved, you'll receive paperwork confirming your claim and explaining the next steps. Start Looking for a New Home: Once eligible, begin your search for a new place to live. Keep all related documents organized. Understand Pre-Moving Costs: These costs may include security deposits, truck or van rental fees, hiring movers, and utility connection charges. Some pre-move expenses, such as estimated moving costs and the first month’s rent, may be covered in advance. Use Other Available Resources First: By law, the program is a last-resort option. If you qualify for housing assistance or help from other non-profit agencies, you’ll need to include this information in your paperwork. that must be used before the CVC Program. Prepare the Required Documents: To receive payment, you'll need to have copies of the following ready: NOTE: Ensure the address for your payment is correct to avoid delays. Relocation and Rental Assistance Acknowledgement Relocation Expense Worksheet Payment Affirmation (if you want payment sent directly to the landlord) Letter of Intent form (if requesting funds before the move) Your complete lease agreement (if requesting funds after the move) Moving cost estimates (if required on the worksheet) Submit Your Paperwork: Once you have submitted a CVC application, you can either use the provided form link to upload your documents or mail them directly to us. Submit Documents Online or Mailing Address: Crime Victim Services P.O. Box 12198 Austin, Texas 78711-2198 Complete Your Move: Use the funds you receive to cover your moving expenses. Keep all receipts and proof of payment. We will need these to review and adjust your expenses. Send Us Your Receipts: Within 30 days of your move, submit your receipts and signed lease agreement. This step is required to receive any additional payments. If You Moved Before Applying or Approval If you moved before applying or being approved, you can still be reimbursed. You still need to submit: Relocation and Rental Assistance Acknowledgement Relocation Expense Worksheet Your complete lease agreement Receipts for your moving expenses In this case, you will receive reimbursement as a single payment rather than in two parts. Remember, you have three years from the date of crime to relocate and we can only assist you with one move. What happens after I apply? Each claim is different, but here's what affects the timeline: The police verify the details of the crime All required documents must be submitted Bills and expenses need to be verified We process claims as quickly as possible and will keep you updated on your status. Ready to apply? Apply for Victim Compensation Questions? We understand that dealing with expenses after a crime can be overwhelming. If you have any questions  or need help, don't hesitate to reach out. We're here to support you during this challenging time. You can contact us online or You can reach us by phone: Mon. – Fri., 8:00am - 5:00pm CT Toll Free: (800) 983-9933 In Austin: (512) 936-1200 Back to top Safety Warning! Computer use can be monitored and is impossible to completely clear. If you are afraid your computer usage might be monitored, please use a safer computer and/or call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at (800) 799-SAFE (7233) or TTY (800) 787-3224. To immediately leave our site and redirect to a neutral site, click the red Escape button in the left hand corner of this page. OK × Back to Top