CVC Covered Costs | Office of the Attorney General Skip to main content Español About News Opinions Careers Contact Us Search Menu × Child Support Your Online Account Back to top of menu Your Online Account Paying and Receiving Child Support About Your Online Account Agency Partners Child Support Enforcement Pro­grams and Initiatives Child Support Guidelines Review Crime Victims Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Back to top of menu Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Victims of Crime Crime Victims’ Compensation Program How May We Help You? Advocate Resources Consumer Protection File a Consumer Complaint Back to top of menu File a Consumer Complaint Automotive Scams Common Scams Equifax Identity Theft Seniors and the Elderly Open Government 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Back to top of menu 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Governmental Bodies How to Request an Attorney General Opinion Members of the Public Open Meetings Act Suspension Updates Open Records Complaint Open Reports and Publications Job Listings All Divisions Opinions Initiatives File a Complaint About Contact us Español CVC Cov­ered Costs Recovering from a violent crime is difficult, but help is available. The Crime Victims’ Compensation (CVC) Program can cover costs like medical bills, lost wages, and counseling. Below, you’ll find a list of costs covered by the program. Click on each option to see what’s covered and find details on eligibility and how to access help. Note for Service Providers: If you are looking for covered cost information specific to service providers, please visit the Service Provider Resources page. Who Can Apply? Find out who can get help and what the minimum program requirements are at the CVC Eligibility page. Victim and Claimant: Understanding the Difference It’s important to know whether you are applying as a victim or a claimant, as some services are only available to one group. Who is a victim? Victims include those injured in a violent crime, those hurt while helping a victim, and first responders injured during a crime. Who is a claimant? Claimants include people paying crime-related bills for a victim, dependents of someone who died because of the crime, and family or household members needing certain assistance, including mental health care Note: If you are applying for a minor or an incapacitated adult, follow the steps for victims. Cost Covered Click on the links below to learn more about each type of assistance. Attorney’s Fees Help with legal costs for your CVC application. Catastrophic Injury Payments Assistance with costs related to catastrophic crime-related injuries, like paralysis. Child and Dependent Care Assistance with child or dependent care after a crime. Crime Scene Clean-up Help clean your home or property after a crime. Disabled Peace Officer Lost Wages Wage replacement for officers hurt in the line of duty. Dental Help paying for dental care after a crime. Emergency Medical Care Covers medical costs for treatment given during a sexual assault exam. Funeral and Burial Help with funeral and burial costs for a loved one. Loss of Support Financial help for dependents who lost support due to a crime. Víctim Claimant Lost Wages Covers lost income due to injury, medical care, or funerals. Víctim Claimant Medical Expenses Help with medical visits, prescriptions, therapy, and other medical costs. Mental Health Care Support for counseling or therapy after a crime. Rent & Relocation Help with rent or moving costs if home is unsafe. Seized Property Reimbursement for property held during an investigation. Travel Expenses Covers travel for medical care, court, funerals, or certain other needs. Costs Not Covered The CVC Program cannot make payments for the following: Property theft, damage, or loss Identity theft costs Pain, suffering, or emotional distress Any cost not a direct result of the crime What Additional Services are Offered for Victims of Violent Crime? These additional services are not part of the CVC program: Address Confidentiality Program Pseudonym Form Victim Notification for Crime Victims Landowner Compensation Program Back to top Back to Top