Crime Victims’ Compensation Program | Office of the Attorney General Skip to main content Español About News Opinions Careers Contact Us Search Menu × Child Support Your Online Account Back to top of menu Your Online Account Paying and Receiving Child Support About Your Online Account Agency Partners Child Support Enforcement Pro­grams and Initiatives Child Support Guidelines Review Crime Victims Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Back to top of menu Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Victims of Crime Crime Victims’ Compensation Program How May We Help You? Advocate Resources Consumer Protection File a Consumer Complaint Back to top of menu File a Consumer Complaint Automotive Scams Common Scams Equifax Identity Theft Seniors and the Elderly Open Government 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Back to top of menu 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Governmental Bodies How to Request an Attorney General Opinion Members of the Public Open Meetings Act Suspension Updates Open Records Complaint Open Reports and Publications Job Listings All Divisions Opinions Initiatives File a Complaint About Contact us Español Crime Vic­tims’ Com­pen­sa­tion Program You may be eligible for help with crime-related costs after a violent crime. The Texas Attorney General’s Crime Victims’ Compensation (CVC) Program helps victims and their families by covering costs like medical bills, counseling, lost wages, and more to aid in your recovery. Understanding how the program works can help you navigate the process more easily. From eligibility to covered costs, knowing what to expect can make a difference. Learn More About the CVC Program's Process For a detailed look at specific parts of the CVC program, choose one of the options below: Who Can Get Help: Learn if this program applies to your situation. Explore How to Apply: Get step-by-step instructions and application links.. Explore Covered Costs: See what types of expenses the program can pay for. Explore Appeals: Learn what to do if your claim is denied or if you disagree with a decision. Explore If you or a loved one has been affected by a violent crime, this program may provide the financial relief you need to focus on healing. Additional Information Victims' CVC Portal Guide Priority Processing: Who Qualifies for Urgent Processing. Collateral Sources: How Other Resources Affect CVC Payments. Back to top Back to Top