1 Tex. Admin. Code § 61.404 - Travel Expenses | State Regulations | US Law | LII / Legal Information Institute Please help us improve our site! × No thank you 1 Tex. Admin. Code § 61.404 - Travel Expenses State Regulations Compare (a) Pursuant to
				  Texas Code of Criminal Procedure Article 56.32(a)(9)(B), (D),and (J), the OAG
				  may reimburse a victim or claimant for actual, reasonable and necessary travel
				  expenses resulting from the criminally injurious conduct. Reasonable and
				  necessary travel expenses include transportation provided by a commercial
				  transportation company, or for mileage for the use of the victim's or
				  claimant's personally owned motor vehicle, including reimbursement to a
				  claimant transporting a victim who is physically or legally unable to operate a
				  motor vehicle. The OAG may reimburse transportation expenses only from the
				  victim's or claimant's residence, unless the applicant demonstrates that good
				  cause exists for another starting destination. The travel distance must exceed
				  20 miles one-way. (b) Meals and
				  lodging expenses are considered reasonable and necessary travel expenses under
				  Texas Code of Criminal Procedure Article 56.32(a)(9)(B)(ii) and (iii), (D), and
				  (J). The OAG may reimburse a victim or claimant for meals and lodging if: (1) the travel distance, one-way from the
				  victim's or claimant's residence, exceeds 60 miles; and (2) lodging is provided by a commercial
				  lodging establishment including a hotel, motel, inn, apartment, or similar
				  entity that offers lodging to the public in exchange for
				  compensation. (c) Reimbursement to a victim or claimant for transportation, meals and lodging may
				  not be paid at a rate that exceeds the maximum rates provided by law to Texas
				  state employees. If no state maximum rate for an expense exists by law, the OAG
				  may reimburse the victim or claimant at a rate determined to be reasonable and
				  necessary. Reimbursement for meals may be paid only if the victim or claimant
				  stays overnight, regardless of whether the OAG reimburses for lodging expenses
				  related to the stay. (d) A victim
				  or claimant seeking reimbursement shall submit a verified statement on a form
				  prescribed by the OAG setting forth the transportation, meals, and lodging
				  expenses under this section. The form shall reflect the number of hours or days
				  of travel and attendance and the mileage using the shortest route between the
				  victim's or claimant's residence and the travel destination if a personal
				  vehicle is used. The victim or claimant shall submit all receipts of
				  transportation and lodging with the claim form. The forms shall contain all of
				  the signatures of the appropriate officials in the following manner: (1) for psychiatric care or counseling, or
				  medically indicated services, the signature of a health care
				  provider; (2) for attendance at or
				  participation in the investigation of the criminally injurious conduct leading
				  to the application, the signature of the law enforcement officer, crime victim
				  liaison, or victim assistance coordinator requesting the victim's or claimant's
				  presence; (3) for attendance at or
				  participation in the prosecution or judicial proceedings of the criminal case
				  forming the basis of the application, the signature of the prosecuting
				  attorney, his or her authorized representative the crime victim liaison, the
				  victim assistance coordinator, the presiding official, or his or her authorized
				  representative; (4) for attendance
				  at or participation in post-conviction or post-adjudication proceedings, the
				  signature of the prosecuting attorney, his or her authorized representative,
				  the crime victim liaison, the victim assistance coordinator, the presiding
				  official, or his or her authorized representative; (5) for attendance at the funeral or memorial
				  service of a victim, the signature of the person officiating the service or a
				  representative of the funeral home, or any other person deemed appropriate by
				  the OAG; or (6) for attendance at
				  an execution proceeding, the signature of a representative, including a victim
				  services professional from the offices of the district attorney, attorney
				  general, a law enforcement agency or the Texas Department of Criminal
				  Justice. (e) A victim or
				  claimant who is subject to a subpoena may not be reimbursed for travel
				  expenses, pursuant to Texas Code of Criminal Procedure Article
				  56.32(a)(9)(B)(iii), for attendance at or participation in the prosecution,
				  judicial, post-conviction or post-adjudication proceedings to the extent the
				  witness receives reimbursement pursuant to Texas Code of Criminal Procedure
				  Article 35.27. (f) Reimbursement
				  for reasonable and necessary travel expenses incurred by a claimant for an
				  execution scheduled on or after June 21, 2003, is available for the purpose of
				  witnessing an execution, as provided by to Texas Code of Criminal Procedure
				  Article 56.32(a)(9)(I). (g) Reimbursement for reasonable and necessary travel expenses incurred by an
				  immediate family member or household member of a deceased victim to attend the
				  funeral or memorial services of the victim, as provided by Texas Code of
				  Criminal Procedure Article 56.32(a)(9)(D), is available for criminally
				  injurious conduct occurring on or after September 1, 2003. Notes 1 Tex. Admin. Code § 61.404 The
					 provisions of this §61.404 adopted to be effective December 15, 2002, 27
					 TexReg 11513; Amended to be effective February 17, 2004, 29 TexReg 1329;
					 Amended to be effective May 8, 2005, 30 TexReg 2491; Amended by Texas
					 Register, Volume 39, Number 43, October 24, 2014, TexReg 8374 , eff. 10/30/2014 ; Amended by Texas
					 Register, Volume 42, Number 32, August 11, 2017, TexReg 3962 , eff. 8/20/2017 State regulations are updated quarterly; we currently have two versions available.
                        Below is a comparison between our most recent version and the prior quarterly release. More comparison features will be added as we have more versions to compare. No prior version found. State Regulations Toolbox