Address Confidentiality Program | Office of the Attorney General Skip to main content Español About News Opinions Careers Contact Us Search Menu × Child Support Your Online Account Back to top of menu Your Online Account Paying and Receiving Child Support About Your Online Account Agency Partners Child Support Enforcement Pro­grams and Initiatives Child Support Guidelines Review Crime Victims Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Back to top of menu Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Victims of Crime Crime Victims’ Compensation Program How May We Help You? Advocate Resources Consumer Protection File a Consumer Complaint Back to top of menu File a Consumer Complaint Automotive Scams Common Scams Equifax Identity Theft Seniors and the Elderly Open Government 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Back to top of menu 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Governmental Bodies How to Request an Attorney General Opinion Members of the Public Open Meetings Act Suspension Updates Open Records Complaint Open Reports and Publications Job Listings All Divisions Opinions Initiatives File a Complaint About Contact us Español Escape Address Con­fi­den­tial­i­ty Program We're here to help keep you safe. The Address Confidentiality Program helps survivors of family violence, sexual assault, human trafficking, and stalking keep their addresses private from public records. Are you eligible? You can apply if you are a victim of: Family violence Sexual assault Human trafficking Stalking Child abduction You'll need to either: Have a protective order or temporary injunction in place, or Have documentation of the crime How it works We provide you with a substitute P.O. box address you can use instead of your actual address. Your mail gets sent to us first, and we forward it to your real address. This may result in a three to four day delay of receiving your mail. This helps keep your location private while letting you: Receive mail safely Enroll children in school Get a driver's license Register to vote Note: This program is one part of staying safe. It doesn't guarantee safety or replace other safety measures. Program length and maintaining privacy You can stay in the program for 3 years at a time and then renew. You must resubmit an application to for this renewal. To keep your address private: Tell us at least 10 days before you move or change your name. Call us at (888) 832-2322. Make sure your mail can reach you. If mail comes back to us 4 times, your participation may end Give us the correct information on your forms If you need to leave the program for any reason, we'll send you a letter explaining why and how you can appeal. When your address may be shared We take your privacy seriously. Your address is only shared in specific situations: When required by law: If ordered by a court With law enforcement for an investigation With the Department of Family and Protective Services for an investigation With the Department of State Health Services for official notifications We may also share your address: If you give us your consent If needed to run the program effectively In all cases, we'll share your information only with authorized officials who need it for official purposes. Need more information about using your ACP address? Learn more at Using Your ACP Address for mail, school, driver's licenses, and more. How to apply Step 1: Connect with an advocate (recommended) A trained advocate can: Explain how the program works Help gather your documents Guide you through the application Submit it securely Find a local advocate: Family Violence: Visit Texas Council on Family Violence or call 800-799-SAFE (7233) Sexual Assault: Visit Texas Association Against Sexual Assault or call 800-656-HOPE (4673) Step 2: Gather the required documents Download an application If you are not working with an advocate, you’ll also need ONE of these: Protection order Temporary restraining order or injunction Documentation of the crime (such as police reports, medical records, or court documents) Step 3: Submit your application With an advocate (Recommended) Your advocate will help you to complete and submit your application On your own Use the provided form link to upload your documents or mail them directly to us. Submit Documents Online or Texas Address Confidentiality Program P.O. Box 12199 Austin, Texas 78711-2199 What happens after I apply? We work hard to process applications as quickly as we can. Most applications are reviewed and completed within two weeks of receiving them. Questions? If you have any questions  or need help, don't hesitate to reach out. We're here to support you during this challenging time. You can contact us online or You can reach us by phone: Mon. – Fri., 8:00am - 5:00pm CT Toll Free: (888) 832-2322 In Austin: (512) 936-1750 Back to top Safety Warning! Computer use can be monitored and is impossible to completely clear. If you are afraid your computer usage might be monitored, please use a safer computer and/or call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at (800) 799-SAFE (7233) or TTY (800) 787-3224. To immediately leave our site and redirect to a neutral site, click the red Escape button in the left hand corner of this page. OK × Back to Top