Crime Victims' Compensation Eligibility: Find Out If You Qualify | Office of the Attorney General Skip to main content Español About News Opinions Careers Contact Us Search Menu × Child Support Your Online Account Back to top of menu Your Online Account Paying and Receiving Child Support About Your Online Account Agency Partners Child Support Enforcement Pro­grams and Initiatives Child Support Guidelines Review Crime Victims Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Back to top of menu Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Victims of Crime Crime Victims’ Compensation Program How May We Help You? Advocate Resources Consumer Protection File a Consumer Complaint Back to top of menu File a Consumer Complaint Automotive Scams Common Scams Equifax Identity Theft Seniors and the Elderly Open Government 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Back to top of menu 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Governmental Bodies How to Request an Attorney General Opinion Members of the Public Open Meetings Act Suspension Updates Open Records Complaint Open Reports and Publications Job Listings All Divisions Opinions Initiatives File a Complaint About Contact us Español Crime Vic­tims’ Com­pen­sa­tion Eli­gi­bil­i­ty: Find Out If You Qualify Before you apply, it helps to know whether the program fits your situation. This page explains who can apply and what the program considers so you can move forward with confidence. The information below explains who can apply, what the program looks for, and how eligibility works for both victims and people applying on a victim’s behalf. Reviewing these details now can save you time and help you decide if submitting an application is the best next step. Note: The application is free, and you don't need a lawyer. However, you can have a lawyer help if you choose. Who can apply for the CVC Program You qualify as a victim if you: Were injured because of a violent crime through no fault of your own Experienced the crime in Texas (or you are a Texas resident and the crime happened in a country without victim compensation) Were injured while helping a victim of a violent crime Were injured while being a first responder to a violent crime You qualify as a claimant (applying on behalf of the victim) if you: Are authorized to act on behalf of: A victim who is a minor A victim who is incapacitated A deceased victim Are paying crime-related bills for a victim Are a dependent of someone who died because of the crime Are family or household members needing certain assistance, including mental health care Please note that: The injury can be physical or mental Businesses and organizations cannot apply for compensation Covered crimes We can help victims of violent crimes or attempted crimes including: Arson (when present in the building) Assault Burglary (when present in the building) Child abuse Criminally negligent homicide DWI crashes Elder abuse Family violence Harassment Hit and run Homicide Human trafficking Kidnapping Manslaughter Robbery Sexual assault Stalking Terroristic threat Note: The CVC Program cannot help with identity theft, regular car accidents, and property crime. See the Nonviolent Crimes page for more information. Basic requirements The CVC Program has basic eligibility requirements that determine who can receive assistance. Review them here to see if you qualify. Note: Special rules apply for sexual assault Emergency Medical Care (EMC): reporting to law enforcement is not required. Learn more about sexual assault EMC reimbursement . You are either a victim or a claimant. The crime happened in Texas to a U.S. resident (or the victim is a Texas resident and the crime happened in a country without victim compensation). You're applying within 3 years of the crime (unless good cause can be shown for the delay). Special exceptions may apply based on age or circumstances Contact us if you're unsure—we're here to help The crime was reported to law enforcement within a reasonable time frame to not hinder the investigation or prosecution of the case. You cooperate with law enforcement investigation and prosecution. This may include giving accurate statements to law enforcement, complying with their reasonable requests, and participating in the prosecution (if the offender is known). For sex crimes after Sept. 1, 2023: getting a forensic medical exam counts as cooperation. There is enough evidence to show the crime occurred. You were not involved in the criminal activity. This means: You did not participate in the crime. You did not commit any criminal activity during the crime (unless it was the result of human trafficking). You were not doing anything illegal that led to the crime. You were not involved in behavior that contributed to the crime. If you share some responsibility, you may still qualify, but the payment could be reduced. You were not in prison or jail during the crime. All information you have given to the program is true and accurate. Ready to apply? Apply for Victim Compensation What happens after I apply? Each claim is different, but here's what affects the timeline: The police verify the details of the crime All required documents must be submitted Bills and expenses need to be verified We process claims as quickly as possible and will keep you updated on your status. Questions We understand that dealing with expenses after a crime can be overwhelming. If you have any questions or need help, don't hesitate to reach out. We're here to support you during this challenging time. You can contact us online or You can reach us by phone: Mon. – Fri., 8:00am - 5:00pm CT Toll Free: (800) 983-9933 In Austin: (512) 936-1200 Back to top Back to Top