Emergency Medical Care Compensation | Office of the Attorney General Skip to main content Español About News Opinions Careers Contact Us Search Menu × Child Support Your Online Account Back to top of menu Your Online Account Paying and Receiving Child Support About Your Online Account Agency Partners Child Support Enforcement Pro­grams and Initiatives Child Support Guidelines Review Crime Victims Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Back to top of menu Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Victims of Crime Crime Victims’ Compensation Program How May We Help You? Advocate Resources Consumer Protection File a Consumer Complaint Back to top of menu File a Consumer Complaint Automotive Scams Common Scams Equifax Identity Theft Seniors and the Elderly Open Government 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Back to top of menu 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Governmental Bodies How to Request an Attorney General Opinion Members of the Public Open Meetings Act Suspension Updates Open Records Complaint Open Reports and Publications Job Listings All Divisions Opinions Initiatives File a Complaint About Contact us Español Emer­gency Med­ical Care Compensation If you received medical care during a sexual assault exam at a hospital, we can help cover those costs—even if you choose not to report the crime. Emergency Medical Care (EMC) compensation covers the costs of medical care provided during a sexual assault exam. This includes: Medical treatment during the exam Medications prescribed at the time of the exam EMS transport to the hospital For medical care sought after August 31, 2025, EMC also covers any prescribed continuing medical care that is related to the sexual assault and provided to the victim during the 30-day period following the exam. Note: Victims cannot be billed for forensic costs of the exam. If you're a medical provider looking to receive reimbursement for conducting sexual assault exams, please visit our Sexual Assault Exam Reimbursement page . Who can get help? Because this compensation only covers medical care provided during a sexual assault exam and specified care during the 30-day follow up period, there are fewer qualification requirements than for Crime Victims' Compensation (CVC) reimbursement. You may qualify for EMC compensation if: You are: A victim who received EMC during a sexual assault exam A person who has paid or is responsible for paying the EMC bills from the sexual assault exam A person authorized to act on behalf of the victim (like a parent or guardian) The sexual assault exam was provided in Texas You're applying within 3 years of the sexual assault exam (unless good cause can be shown for the delay) You were not in prison or jail during the crime All information you have given to the program is true and accurate How much can EMC cover? Up to $25,000 may be reimbursed under sexual assault emergency care for sexual assault exams after August 31, 2023. The amount you qualify for depends on the laws at the time of the crime. Medical costs are paid according to the medical fee guidelines set by the Texas Department of Insurance. How do I receive assistance? Receive medical care during a sexual assault exam. If you have experienced sexual assault, seek medical care as soon as possible. Medical providers can perform a sexual assault exam to collect evidence and provide treatment. Note: Providers at SAFE Programs can apply for direct reimbursement of medical care they provide during the forensic exam.  Providers can find more information at Sexual Assault Exam Reimbursement . Use Other Available Resources First: By law, this program is the last option for payment. You should use any insurance or other available resources before applying for compensation through this program. (This is not required for those who receive care from a provider at a SAFE Program) Choose an application path: The OAG offers two options for financial assistance to cover medical costs from a forensic exam: EMC Only: Covers initial medical costs from the sexual assault exam and prescribed continuing medical care that is related to the sexual assault and provided to the victim during the 30-day period following the exam. Full CVC Application: Covers ongoing expenses beyond the forensic exam. Please visit Help Deciding: EMC vs. CVC Applications for more discussion of the differences between the application paths. If you choose EMC only, you can still apply for CVC within three years of the crime. Applying for EMC only The following steps are for if you're requesting EMC only. See CVC How to Apply for more information on applying for the full CVC Program. Gather Medical Care Bills: Include the following documents with your application: Itemized medical bills Receipts for any paid bills Insurance Explanation of Benefits (EOB), if applicable Submit Your Application: You can apply by: Submit Online via our Portal or Complete the CVC application, following the Emergency Medical Care specific instructions. Mailing Address: Crime Victim Services P.O. Box 12198 Austin, Texas 78711-2198 Submit Additional Documents : If you receive more bills or paperwork related to your claim: Submit Online via our Portal or Submit Online via our Email Form or Submit via US Mail: Crime Victim Services P.O. Box 12198 Austin, Texas 78711-2198 Note: If you start with an EMC Only application and later decide you need the additional coverage of the CVC program, you can apply for full CVC assistance anytime within 3 years of the date of the crime. What happens after I apply? Each claim is different, but here's what affects the timeline: We verify with a provider that a sexual assault exam was conducted All required documents must be submitted Bills and expenses need to be verified We process claims as quickly as possible and will keep you updated on your status. Question s Dealing with the aftermath of sexual assault can be overwhelming, and worrying about medical costs should be the last thing on your mind. We are dedicated to making this process as simple as possible for you. If you have any questions, are unsure about which option is right for you, or need help filling out an application, please reach out. You can contact us online or You can reach us by phone: Mon. – Fri., 8:00am - 5:00pm CT Toll Free: (800) 983-9933 In Austin: (512) 936-1200 Back to top Back to Top