Medical Care Expenses | Office of the Attorney General Skip to main content Español About News Opinions Careers Contact Us Search Menu × Child Support Your Online Account Back to top of menu Your Online Account Paying and Receiving Child Support About Your Online Account Agency Partners Child Support Enforcement Pro­grams and Initiatives Child Support Guidelines Review Crime Victims Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Back to top of menu Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Victims of Crime Crime Victims’ Compensation Program How May We Help You? Advocate Resources Consumer Protection File a Consumer Complaint Back to top of menu File a Consumer Complaint Automotive Scams Common Scams Equifax Identity Theft Seniors and the Elderly Open Government 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Back to top of menu 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Governmental Bodies How to Request an Attorney General Opinion Members of the Public Open Meetings Act Suspension Updates Open Records Complaint Open Reports and Publications Job Listings All Divisions Opinions Initiatives File a Complaint About Contact us Español Med­ical Care Expenses Do you need help paying medical bills for injuries caused by a crime? You may be eligible for compensation to help with those medical costs. Here's what you need to know: Too often, victims of violent crimes feel overwhelmed by medical expenses related to their injuries. The Crime Victims’ Compensation (CVC) Program might be able to help pay for those costs. Examples of expenses that can be covered include: Hospitalization Doctor’s services Ambulance services Prescriptions Dental work Nursing home services Medical appliances such as wheelchairs and prosthetics Who Can Get Help? Victims who received crime-related medical care. How Much Can the Crime Victims Compensation Program Cover? The CVC Program can help cover up to $50,000 for an approved claim, including all eligible services and expenses—not just this one. If you’re seeking reimbursement for sexual assault emergency care, an additional $25,000 may be available. The amount you qualify for depends on the laws at the time of the crime, and some costs might not be covered. Medical costs are paid according to the medical fee guidelines set by the Texas Department of Insurance . Medical and mental health care costs, as well as reimbursement for sexual assault emergency care, are considered separately under the CVC Program. For more information on these and other covered services, please visit the service list page. How Do I Receive Medical Care Assistance? Apply for the CVC Program: Apply online or by mail. We'll guide you through each step. Get Notified of Eligibility: If your application is approved, you'll receive paperwork confirming your claim and explaining the next steps. Gather Necessary Documents: Be ready to provide copies of: Itemized medical bills Receipts for any paid bills Insurance Explanation of Benefits (EOB) Medical insurance card showing coverage dates Use Other Available Resources First: By law, the CVC Program is the last option for payment. Be sure to use any insurance or other available resources before seeking compensation through the program. Submit Your Paperwork: Once you have submitted a CVC application, you can either use the provided form link to upload your documents or mail them directly to us. Submit Documents Online or Mailing Address: Crime Victim Services P.O. Box 12198 Austin, Texas 78711-2198 Complete Your Treatment: Once your claim is processed, the CVC Program can pay the medical provider directly or reimburse you for out-of-pocket costs. Send Us Your Receipts: After treatment is completed, submit your receipts and any remaining paperwork to finalize the process. What Happens After I Apply? Each claim is different, but here's what affects the timeline: The police verify the details of the crime All required documents must be submitted Bills and expenses need to be verified We process claims as quickly as possible and will keep you updated on your status. Ready to Apply? Apply for Victim Compensation Questions? We understand that dealing with expenses after a crime can be overwhelming. If you have any questions or need help, don't hesitate to reach out. We're here to support you during this challenging time. You can contact us online or You can reach us by phone: Mon. – Fri., 8:00am - 5:00pm CT Toll Free: (800) 983-9933 In Austin: (512) 936-1200 Back to top Back to Top