Mental Health Care Expenses | Office of the Attorney General Skip to main content Español About News Opinions Careers Contact Us Search Menu × Child Support Your Online Account Back to top of menu Your Online Account Paying and Receiving Child Support About Your Online Account Agency Partners Child Support Enforcement Pro­grams and Initiatives Child Support Guidelines Review Crime Victims Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Back to top of menu Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Victims of Crime Crime Victims’ Compensation Program How May We Help You? Advocate Resources Consumer Protection File a Consumer Complaint Back to top of menu File a Consumer Complaint Automotive Scams Common Scams Equifax Identity Theft Seniors and the Elderly Open Government 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Back to top of menu 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Governmental Bodies How to Request an Attorney General Opinion Members of the Public Open Meetings Act Suspension Updates Open Records Complaint Open Reports and Publications Job Listings All Divisions Opinions Initiatives File a Complaint About Contact us Español Men­tal Health Care Expenses Do you need help paying mental health care bills because of a crime? You may be eligible for compensation to help with those medical costs. Here's what you need to know: Too often, victims of violent crimes feel overwhelmed by mental health care expenses related to the crime. The Crime Victims’ Compensation (CVC) Program might be able to help pay for those costs. Examples of expenses that can be covered include: Mental health services provided by a: Psychiatrist or other Medical Doctor (MD or DO) Clinical Psychologist (PhD) Clinical Nurse Specialist (CNS) Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP) Advanced Practice Registered Nurse (APRN) Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW) Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC) Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist (LMFT) Treatment must be necessary, reasonable, and directly related to the crime injury. The CVC Program will not pay for: Pre-existing psychological conditions Missed appointments Therapist court appearances for testimony Who Can Get Help? You may receive assistance if you qualify for the CVC Program and are receiving mental health care related to a crime. How Much Can the CVC Program Cover? Up to 60 sessions for crimes that occurred after 8/31/2014. For crimes before this date, different limits may apply. These limits apply per person, per claim. For family counseling, the limit is shared by the entire family. If you need additional sessions, additional documentation may be requested from your provider. How Do I Receive Assistance for Mental Health Care? Apply for the CVC Program: Apply online or by mail. We'll guide you through each step. Get Notified of Eligibility: If your application is approved, you'll receive paperwork confirming your claim and explaining the next steps. Use Other Available Resources First: By law, the CVC Program is the last option for payment. Be sure to use any insurance or other available resources before seeking compensation through the program. Start Receiving Mental Health Care: Once eligible, begin attending sessions with an approved provider. Make sure to keep all related documents organized. You should use your insurance plan and providers that are in your insurance network. The CVC Program does not make referrals to mental health care providers. If you need help finding an approved provider, contact your insurance provider or local victim advocate. Prepare Required Documents: To ensure timely payment, have the following ready: Itemized medical bills Receipts for paid bills Insurance Explanation of Benefits (EOB) Submit Your Paperwork: Once you have submitted a CVC application, you can either use the provided form link to upload your documents or mail them directly to us. Submit Documents Online or Mailing Address: Crime Victim Services P.O. Box 12198 Austin, Texas 78711-2198 Request Exceptions (If Needed): Compensation is generally limited to one session per week. If you are requesting compensation for additional sessions, additional documentation may be requested from your provider. Mental health care providers should be in-network. If you need to request an exception to the network requirement, please submit a signed and dated letter explaining why you are using an out-of-network provider. Send Receipts and Proof of Payment: After treatment is completed, submit your receipts and any remaining paperwork to finalize the process. What Happens After I Apply? Each claim is different, but here's what affects the timeline: The police verify the details of the crime All required documents must be submitted Bills and expenses need to be verified We process claims as quickly as possible and will keep you updated on your status. Ready to Apply? Apply for Victim Compensation Questions? We understand that dealing with expenses after a crime can be overwhelming. If you have any questions or need help, don't hesitate to reach out. We're here to support you during this challenging time. You can contact us online or You can reach us by phone: Mon. – Fri., 8:00am - 5:00pm CT Toll Free: (800) 983-9933 In Austin: (512) 936-1200 Back to top Back to Top