Travel Cost Reimbursement | Office of the Attorney General Skip to main content Español About News Opinions Careers Contact Us Search Menu × Child Support Your Online Account Back to top of menu Your Online Account Paying and Receiving Child Support About Your Online Account Agency Partners Child Support Enforcement Pro­grams and Initiatives Child Support Guidelines Review Crime Victims Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Back to top of menu Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Victims of Crime Crime Victims’ Compensation Program How May We Help You? Advocate Resources Consumer Protection File a Consumer Complaint Back to top of menu File a Consumer Complaint Automotive Scams Common Scams Equifax Identity Theft Seniors and the Elderly Open Government 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Back to top of menu 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Governmental Bodies How to Request an Attorney General Opinion Members of the Public Open Meetings Act Suspension Updates Open Records Complaint Open Reports and Publications Job Listings All Divisions Opinions Initiatives File a Complaint About Contact us Español Trav­el Cost Reimbursement Have you experienced crime-related travel costs? You may be eligible for some reimbursement. Here's what you need to know: Too often people face added financial strain when dealing with travel expenses related to a crime. The Crime Victims' Compensation (CVC) Program might be able to help pay for these costs. The costs that can be covered are: Travel over 20 miles one way for medical or mental health care, court proceedings, or a victim’s funeral Travel over 60 miles one way may include food (per diem) or lodging Who Can Get Help? You may receive assistance if you qualify for the CVC Program and have eligible crime-related travel costs. Note: Victims or claimants subpoenaed to appear in court cannot receive reimbursement through the CVC program for those appearances. If subpoenaed, please seek reimbursement from the prosecutor’s office. How Much Can the CVC Program Cover? The CVC Program can help cover up to $50,000 for an approved claim, including all eligible services and expenses—not just this one. The reimbursement rates for eligible travel costs are determined by the Texas Comptroller's Office. Compensation may be limited or unavailable based on laws in effect at the time of the crime. How Do I Receive Travel Assistance? Apply for the CVC Program: Submit your application online or by mail. We’ll guide you through the process. Get Notified of Eligibility: If your application is approved, we’ll send you confirmation of your claim and details about eligible expenses. Keep Detailed Records: As you travel, save your receipts and fill out the Travel/Appointment Verification Information Form . This form must be signed by you and the individual verifying the appointment (e.g., advocate, medical or mental health provider, or criminal justice official). Note: Gas expenses are reimbursed based off of the state’s mileage rate. Food is reimbursed based on the state’s daily per diem rate. Receipts for those items are not needed. Submit Your Paperwork: Once you have submitted a CVC application, you can either use the provided form link to upload your documents or mail them directly to us. Submit Documents Online or Mailing Address: Crime Victim Services P.O. Box 12198 Austin, Texas 78711-2198 What Happens After I Apply? Each claim is different, but here's what affects the timeline: The police verify the details of the crime All required documents must be submitted Bills and expenses need to be verified We process claims as quickly as possible and will keep you updated on your status. Ready to Apply? Apply for Victim Compensation Questions? We understand that dealing with expenses after a crime can be overwhelming. If you have any questions or need help, don't hesitate to reach out. We're here to support you during this challenging time. You can contact us online or You can reach us by phone: Mon. – Fri., 8:00am - 5:00pm CT Toll Free: (800) 983-9933 In Austin: (512) 936-1200 Back to top Back to Top