Lost Wages for Victims | Office of the Attorney General Skip to main content Español About News Opinions Careers Contact Us Search Menu × Child Support Your Online Account Back to top of menu Your Online Account Paying and Receiving Child Support About Your Online Account Agency Partners Child Support Enforcement Pro­grams and Initiatives Child Support Guidelines Review Crime Victims Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Back to top of menu Crime Victims’ Compensation Program Victims of Crime Crime Victims’ Compensation Program How May We Help You? Advocate Resources Consumer Protection File a Consumer Complaint Back to top of menu File a Consumer Complaint Automotive Scams Common Scams Equifax Identity Theft Seniors and the Elderly Open Government 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Back to top of menu 2025 Texas Legislative Session Update Governmental Bodies How to Request an Attorney General Opinion Members of the Public Open Meetings Act Suspension Updates Open Records Complaint Open Reports and Publications Job Listings All Divisions Opinions Initiatives File a Complaint About Contact us Español Lost Wages for Victims Do you need help replacing lost wages due to a crime? You may be eligible for compensation for lost wages during a crime-related disability period or to attend events like funerals, medical appointments, and criminal justice proceedings. Here’s what you need to know: Too often, victims of violent crimes miss work because of their injuries or the need to attend important events, but they don’t realize they may be eligible for compensation for lost wages. The Crime Victims’ Compensation (CVC) Program may be able to help pay for lost wages. Who can get help? You may qualify for assistance if you are eligible for the CVC Program and miss work for any of the following reasons: Crime-related disability Attending medical or mental health care appointments Participation in criminal justice proceedings If you’re a victim looking for help with Lost Wages, please go to the Lost Wages for Claimants for the right resources. How much can the Compensation Program cover? The CVC Program covers up to $700 per week for lost wages for crimes after July 14, 2016. For crimes before that date, different limits may apply. How do I receive compensation for lost wages? Apply for the CVC Program: Submit your application online or by mail. We'll guide you through the process and let you know what documents are needed. Get Notified of Eligibility: If your application is approved, you’ll receive paperwork confirming your eligibility and explaining the next steps. Provide Supporting Documents: You may need to submit: Lost Wage Affirmation form (for ongoing disability) Travel/Appointment form (for periodic absences) Verification of employment Medical documentation Proof of disability payments Use Other Available Resources First: By law, the program is a last-resort option. If you qualify for compensation from other sources, like worker's compensation and disability, that must be used before the CVC Program. Submit Your Paperwork: Once you have submitted a CVC application, you can either use the provided form link to upload your documents or mail them directly to us. Submit Documents Online or Mailing Address: Crime Victim Services P.O. Box 12198 Austin, Texas 78711-2198 What happens after I apply? Each claim is different, but here's what affects the timeline: The police verify the details of the crime All required documents must be submitted Bills and expenses need to be verified We process claims as quickly as possible and will keep you updated on your status. Ready to apply? Apply for Victim Compensation Questions? We understand that dealing with expenses after a crime can be overwhelming. If you have any questions or need help, don't hesitate to reach out. We're here to support you during this challenging time. You can contact us online or You can reach us by phone: Mon. – Fri., 8:00am - 5:00pm CT Toll Free: (800) 983-9933 In Austin: (512) 936-1200 Back to top Back to Top