Victims Compensation Program Skip to main content Victims Compensation Program Purpose of the Program The purpose of the Crime Victims Compensation Act is to provide a method of compensation for victims of violent crime. All funds come from federal and state offenders through fines and penalty assessments. An arrest of the offender does NOT have to take place in order to be eligible to file a claim; however, the victim and/or claimant is expected to fully cooperate in the apprehension, investigation, and prosecution of the perpetrator. The claimant is also expected to fully cooperate with the District Attorney's Office and Victims Compensation Board staff during the processing of the claim. History The Crime Victims' Compensation Program was created in 1981 with the passage of the Crime Victims' Compensation Act . The Act established guidelines for eligibility and the provision of financial reimbursement to victims of crime. Program guidelines were established with the first payments being made for crimes that occurred after October 19, 1981. The Oklahoma District Attorneys Council has administered the fund since the inception of the program. Application Process The process begins with the victim or claimant filling out the claim form ( type-in and print the official claim form , or print out claim form and write-in ), and ends with a decision by the Crime Victims Compensation Board or Administrator. Once the claim is completed and mailed to the Crime Victims Compensation Board headquarters, the staff logs the claim into the database and assigns a claim number to the application. The claim is then forwarded to the appropriate District Attorney's office Victim-Witness Coordinator for further processing. Contact information and a claim number is sent by mail to the claimant after the claim is logged in. The Documentation process is carried out by the Victim-Witness Coordinator in the District Attorney's office. A police report is requested, along with any other forms and reports that may be needed to determine out-of-pocket expenses. After the Victim-Witness Coordinator gathers all necessary information, the completed claim is forwarded back to the Crime Victims' Compensation Program for decision. Claims usually take several months to complete due to all of the documentation that is required. Status of a claim . The staff reviews the application to make sure the claim meets all of the ELIGIBILITY guidelines established by law. A primary requirement is that the crime be one in which the victim suffered physical or psychological harm or death as a result of a violent crime. Eligible claimants are the victim, a dependent of a deceased victim, or a person authorized to act on behalf of the victim. Applicants must also meet the following reporting and filing REQUIREMENTS: The crime must have occurred in Oklahoma. The crime must have been reported to law enforcement within 72 hours of the incident. The Board or administrator may find good cause for failure to report within this period. Exceptions are always made for child victims. The claim for compensation must be filed within one (1) year of the crime-related injury of the victim.  The one (1) year deadline may be waived and extended to two (2) years for good cause, and may be extended beyond two (2) years only in child sexual assault cases.  In no event can other claims be extended beyond two (2) years. The claimant is required to fully cooperate with the police, prosecution and other law enforcement entities during the investigation and prosecution of the offender. Compensation shall not be awarded to a claimant if it would benefit the offender or an accomplice, and the claimant must not have been the offender or accomplice. Compensation that could be awarded to a claimant shall be reduced or denied, depending on the degree of responsibility for the injury or death that is attributable to the victim. Once all documentation is received from the Victim-Witness Coordinator in the District Attorney's Office, the claim is assigned to a CLAIMS EXAMINER located at the Crime Victims Compensation Board head-quarters. The Claims Examiner reviews the documentation of losses provided by eligible victims and claimants and determines the compensable amount on the claim. Claims with expenses under $10,000.00 are then decided by the Administrator of the program. Claims over $10,000.00 are decided by the three-member Governor appointed BOARD .  Claims are generally placed on a docket for decision within 30 days of receipt of all documentation from the Victim-Witness Coordinator. If additional information is needed, the claim may take longer than 30 days to docket. The Crime Victims' Compensation Fund is the PAYER OF LAST RESORT. Expenses that are paid or eligible to be paid from other sources such as: health insurance, Medicaid, Workers' Compensation, Medicare, and Indian Health Services may not be compensated. Employer paid leave programs are also considered a collateral source when applying for work loss; and Social Security benefits are a collateral source when applying for loss of support. PAYMENTS are generally made within three weeks of approval. Payments are sent directly to service providers on outstanding balances at a rate of 80%. Medical, dental, and counseling service providers are required by law to write off the remaining 20% if they accept payment from the Crime Victims Compensation Board. Medical, dental, and counseling expenses that the victim is out-of-pocket will be reimbursed at 100%, provided there is documentation of payment and no collateral sources exist. If an application is DENIED , the victim or claimant is given a written explanation and instructions on how to exercise their right to APPEAL . The first appeal is to the Board. If a victim or claimant is still dissatisfied with the decision, the second step in the process is to file a petition in District Court. Eligible Expenses Funeral - Up to $7,500.00 may be reimbursed for expenses related to the funeral, cremation, or burial of a deceased victim. Future Economic Loss - Needed services which cannot be obtained without prior approval of the victims compensation claim or payment in advance from the victim. To submit a request for future economic loss, include an itemized list of the expenses you expect to incur, along with an explanation regarding the expense. If the expense is for dental work or surgery necessary to repair damage from the criminal incident, ask the attending physician to write an accurate estimate which clearly states the work to be performed and the cost. The attending physician should relate, in writing, the need for medical treatment due to injuries sustained during the crime. Traditional American Indian Services – In addition to expenses listed throughout the instructions, the following expenses may also be considered for reimbursement in traditional healing or burial ceremonies for American Indian victims of crime and family members of American Indian homicide victims: 1) traditional native counseling and healing from an elder or spiritual healer, minister, pastor, or faith-based counselor; 2)  sweat lodge and smudging ceremonies; 3) ceremonial burials, including clothing for the deceased, meals/food baskets and other expenses related to the traditional giveaway or gifting practices of the Tribe; 4) child care during burial ceremony; 5)  reimbursement of gifts to individuals for the performance of service (i.e. quilts, cooking, etc.).  In order for reimbursement of these expenses, receipts must be provided with the item’s purpose clearly noted on the receipt. The maximum allowable for burial related expenses, including gifting, is $7,500.  The maximum allowable for healing services is $3,000 for the injured victim. The maximum for healing services for each family member after a homicide is also $3,000.  The maximum award for all services compensated through the Crime Victims Compensation Program may not exceed $20,000.  If requesting reimbursement for healing or burial ceremonies, please also complete the “Request for Traditional American Indian Services” form located here: Request for Traditional American Indian Services Income Loss - Loss of income from work the victim would have performed if he/she had not been injured. Work loss must be verified by the employer and the attending physician. Effective July 1, 1999, caregiver work loss can be awarded up to $2,000.00, if the work loss is verified by the victim's physician and an employer's certificate from the caregiver's employer is filed. Caregiver work loss may only be awarded to persons who have non-reimbursed wage loss due to caring for an injured victim of crime. Loss of Support - In the event of the death of a victim, the Board may consider providing reimbursement for loss of support to a dependent based on the victim's net income at the time of death, less any collateral sources such as: Life insurance (over $50,000.00), Social Security, Worker' Compensation, uninsured motorist coverage, or 3 rd party reimbursements. Monthly installments or a lump sum award is at the discretion of the Board. Medical/Dental - Includes products, services, and accommodations for medical care (Examples: doctor exams, dental work, hospital treatment, hospital stay, artificial limbs, prescriptions, and eye glasses). For crimes occurring on or after July 1, 2004, medical related fees will be paid up to 80% of the maximum allowance. For crimes before July 1, 2004, medical related fees could be paid up to 100% of the maximum allowance. Rehabilitation - Includes such things as physical and psychological therapy, rehabilitative occupational training, and other remedial treatment and care. Counseling for Victims - For crimes occurring on or after July 1, 2004 there are no fee schedule limitations. The maximum compensable amount for the victim's counseling is $3,000.00. This limit may be waived by the Board in extenuating circumstances. Although the Board no longer has a fee schedule for counseling, victims are advised to seek treatment from a licensed mental health professional. For crimes occurring before July 1, 2004 there was a fee schedule as follows: Psychiatrist (M.D.), $110.00; Psychologist (Ph.D.), $100.00; Social Workers, Licensed Professional Counselors, or Marital and Family Therapists (ACSW, LSW, LCSW, LPC, LMFT), $60.00; and Masters in Social Work (MSW), $35.00 (only if MSW works in licensed facility under supervision of a qualified mental health professional). A session is presumably the standard 45 minutes. Grief Counseling - For crimes occurring on or after July 1, 2005, crisis counseling that is initiated within three years of the crime is compensable, up to $3,000.00 for each family member of a homicide victim, provided the counselor is a qualified mental health care provider. Medical and pharmaceutical treatment for a family member of a homicide victim is not compensable. For crimes occurring between July 1, 2000 and June 30, 2005, there is a $500.00 per family member counseling limit, not to exceed $3,000.00 per family of a homicide victim; counseling must have been initiated within two years of the incident. For crimes occurring between July 1, 1999 and June 30, 2000, there is a $500.00 per person and $1,000.00 per family limit; counseling must have been initiated within 120 days. Crime Scene Cleanup - Crime scene cleanup can be covered up to $2,000.00, effective November 1, 2009. Replacement Services - Expenses reasonably incurred in obtaining ordinary and necessary services in place of those the victim would have performed for the benefit of self or family, if the victim had not been injured. IMPORTANT: Pain and suffering and personal property are NOT allowable expenses under the Crime Victims Compensation Act Program Funding and Commitment The program's ability to provide financial assistance to crime victims is directly related to the health of the Crime Victims' Compensation Fund. Through a partnership that includes the Legislature, the Courts, the District Attorneys Council, individual elected District Attorneys, crime victims, and crime victim advocates, revenues to the fund are sufficient to meet the ongoing financial needs of victims at this time. When demands on the Fund limited awards, the State Legislature and Governor increased the revenue sources for the Fund. The key to this program's success has been the continuous effort to focus on the needs of the victim. While the citizens served have faced trauma, tragedy and financial loss due to the criminal acts of others, no two victims' experiences are the same. Staff training on victim issues is a priority and ensures that each claim is handled with attention to the individual's unique experience and needs. Training is offered which highlights the program and the rights of victims to local service agencies, criminal justice professional and health care providers. Professionals from these groups have shared valuable insights on how the program can better meet victims' needs. By working with the Legislature to put victims first, and by remaining true to the statute that created this Fund, success and stability has been achieved. While the Crime Victims' Compensation Program is proud of its past and the productivity it has achieved, we are committed to making every effort to ensure that victims continue to receive all possible assistance from this program, as defined by statute. We encourage staff to find creative and simple ways to reduce their workload by using technology. We work closely with those receiving grants from the Victims of Crime Act fund to ensure that helping crime victims obtain compensation is given high priority. We are confident about our future, and committed to enhancing the level of service that people have come to expect from the Crime Victims Compensation Program and the Oklahoma District Attorneys Council. For a copy of the Rules and Regulations for the Crime Victims Compensation Program . Funding Sources for Crime Victims Compensation Program Funding for the Victims Compensation Fund comes from a variety of sources. The primary source of funding for this program is from criminal fines and penalty assessments at the District Court level. Following is a list of Victims Compensation Assessments in Oklahoma: $30 - $300 Misdemeanor $50 - $10,000 Felony (Criminal Injurious Conduct) $45 - $1000 Felony (Non Injurious Conduct) $35 Crimes involving violence/threat of violence/sexual assault (Municipal) $25 Driving Under the Influence (Municipal) Deferred Judgment (Felony/Misdemeanor ranges) Deferred Prosecution (Felony/Misdemeanor ranges) Juvenile Adjudication (May award up to $2000) The second largest source of funding is from federal fines and penalty assessments at the Federal Court level. Funds from the Federal Victims of Crime Fund are passed through to states from the Office for Victims of Crime . The following are some examples. FEDERAL COURTS The national Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) allows the collection of fines, fees and assessments from federal offenses. Passed in 1984, VOCA has awarded grants to the Oklahoma Crime Victims Compensation Fund since 1986. RESTITUTION A defendant may be ordered to reimburse the Fund for monies paid on behalf of the victim of the crime he/she committed. The Division provides local prosecutors with information regarding the amount of money the Fund has paid on behalf of a victim, so the amount owed to the Fund may be determined. Restitution paid by parolees to victims who cannot be located is another source of revenue. If the money remains unclaimed after three years, it is deposited in the Crime Victims’ Compensation Fund. If any of the victims are later located, restitution is paid directly from the Fund to them. For more information on restitution click here . INMATE FEES If an inmate earns wages while incarcerated, five percent of those earnings are deposited into the Fund. Inmates having savings accounts through the DOC while incarcerated are required to pay 20 percent of interest earned to the Fund. OTHER SOURCES OF REVENUE Other sources of revenue for the Fund include donations and subrogation. When a crime victim is awarded money in a civil suit against the criminal, the Crime Victims Compensation Fund has a lien of subrogation in an amount equal to the amount paid by the fund. Similarly, if other collateral sources such as insurance or Medicaid pay service providers for expenses paid by the program, those service providers are obligated to return the overpayment to the Fund. SEXUAL ASSAULT EXAMINATION FUND Funds for the payment of the sexual assault examinations come from deposits into the Crime Victims Compensation Fund via a journal entry transfer through the Office of State Finance. The District Attorneys Council is empowered by the Crime Victims Compensation Board to pay sexual assault examinations, provided said examinations are approved by each District Attorney or an authorized assistant. For more information on the Sexual Assault Examination Fund click here . Restitution in Oklahoma District Courts Oklahoma State Statutes provide that as part of the sentence or plea agreement, the Court can order the defendant to pay restitution to the victim of the crime. Restitution may only be ordered in cases where evidence is shown to the Court of actual expenses the victim has incurred because of the crime. Some types of expenses the Court may consider include: Property damage resulting from the crime Value of property or money stolen that could not be recovered Medical, counseling, or dental expenses resulting from the crime Loss of income resulting from the crime Funeral expenses the family has incurred, if the victim died as a result of the crime Other documented expenses resulting from the crime Restitution cannot be ordered for pain and suffering or for expenses that can’t be documented. However, the judge in the case may order the restitution for up to three times the actual economic loss presented to the Court. This is usually done when the victim has continuing losses from the crime. For example, if the tools of a victim’s trade were stolen, the victim would not only be out the current value of the tools, but the difference between the cost of the used tools and brand new tools, and the loss of income from jobs the victim could not perform without the tools. The judge will consider all these factors when determining the actual amount of restitution to order. In addition, judges have an option to order interest to accrue on the restitution amount until it is paid in full. A victim presents evidence of loss to the Court by completing a Restitution Recovery Form and providing documentation (bills, insurance statements, pay stubs, etc.) that show the amount of the loss. The Restitution Recovery Form and documentation should be given to the prosecutor or the District Attorney’s Victim Witness Advocate prior to the sentencing date or the date of any plea agreement. If all or part of the victim’s expenses are paid through a state agency, (i.e. Worker’s Compensation or the Crime Victim Compensation ), the judge may decide to order the defendant to pay restitution to those agencies to reimburse them. How the restitution is collected and distributed varies depending on the county in which the crime was prosecuted and whether the crime was a misdemeanor or felony. Some counties collect all restitution in the District Attorney’s office; others collect restitution through the Department of Corrections or through a Probation and Parole Office. If the defendant must serve time in prison or jail, payment of restitution usually does not begin until the defendant is released on probation or parole. If you have questions about whether restitution was ordered in a criminal case or the status of the payment of the restitution, contact the District Attorney's Office . Restitution is not currently available in Oklahoma’s municipal (city) courts, but Federal cases (those prosecuted by U.S. Attorneys ) do have provisions for restitution. For a breakdown of statutes regarding restitution in Oklahoma District Courts, including statute citations, click here . Crime Victims Compensation Board Members Allyson Carson Murry Parrish Lauren Garder Contact Information: Oklahoma District Attorneys Council Oklahoma Crime Victims Compensation Board 421 NW 13th, Suite 290 Oklahoma City, OK 73103 405-264-5006 Toll-Free 1-800-745-6098 E-mail: VictimsServices@dac.state.ok.us Last Modified on Jan 02, 2025 Back to Top Back to top Oklahoma District Attorneys Council Oklahoma Crime Victims Compensation Board 421 NW 13 th , Suite 290 Oklahoma City, OK 73103 Office: 405-264-5006 Toll-Free 1-800-745-6098 E-mail: VictimsServices@dac.state.ok.us VINELink