Log in | VCP Online Access | Oklahoma Crime Victims Compensation | OCVC Log in Log in Create account Forgot password? If you prefer to complete a written application, please complete one of the printable versions below and send it to the Oklahoma Crime Victims Board via mail or fax. Printable PDF in English PDF Imprimible en Español Printable Word Doc in English Word Doc Imprimible en Español Hope Begins With Help Easing the Financial Burden of Crime Victims Welcome Oklahoma Crime Victims Compensation (OCVC) may be available if you or someone you love suffered physical or psychological injury due to a violent crime that occurred anywhere in the state of Oklahoma. How to Apply It's simple. Use our online application to apply for compensation benefits. We will help you through every step of the process. What expenses qualify for compensation? OCVC may provide compensation for these UNREIMBURSED expenses related to the crime: medical, dental and prescriptions; counseling and rehabilitation; grief counseling for families of homicide victims; traditional healing; crime scene cleanup; funeral and burial expenses; work loss and replacement of services; loss of support for dependents of a deceased victim; mileage reimbursement for appointments for the victim. When should a claim be filed? The crime should be reported to law enforcement within 72 hours, and a claim should be filed within one year of the injury or death of the victim. Reporting and filing deadlines may be waived and extended under certain circumstances, or if the victim was a minor or incapacitated adult. This Website is funded through a grant from the Office for Victims of Crime,
    Office of Justice Programs, U.S. Department of Justice. Neither the U.S. Department of Justice nor any of its
    components operate, control, are responsible for, or necessarily endorse, this Website (including, without limitation, its
    content, technical infrastructure, and policies, and any services or tools provided). Powered by VCPMS.com