Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) Skip to main content Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) The ACP aids in protecting the physical address of victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, human trafficking, and child abduction from disclosure. ACP contributes to the safety of victims by denying abusers the opportunity to use public records to violate the rights of others. Victims who have moved to a new location unknown to their abuser are provided with a substitute address when interacting with state and local agencies. State and local government agencies are then allowed to respond to requests for public records without disclosing the location of a victim of these crimes. ACP also provides participants with a cost-free first-class mail forwarding service. The ACP is not for everyone. Recommendation for participation in the program is deferred to experts in domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, human trafficking, and child abduction. For more information about the program and how to apply, call us toll-free at: (866) 227-7784 or email oag.acp@oag.ok.gov . Program Eligibility To be eligible for ACP, an individual must be: A victim (or an adult who resides with a victim) of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking who fears for his or her safety, or someone who resides with such a person and fears for his or her safety. A resident of Oklahoma who has recently relocated to a place unknown to his or her abuser or is planning to move in the near future. Applying for Participation Victims do not apply directly to the Oklahoma Address Confidentiality Program. Application is made in person at one of the designated victim assistance programs located throughout the state. Designated programs are state or local agencies or nonprofit agencies that provide counseling and shelter services to victims of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking and have ACP trained staff. A parent or guardian can apply to the program on behalf of a minor or incapacitated person. The application process involves meeting with an application assistant. Find A Designated Victim Assitance Program Application Assistant An application assistant is a domestic violence and sexual assault advocate who has received ACP training. The application assistant provides the victim with information about the program and determines whether ACP should be a part of the victim’s overall safety plan. In addition, the application assistant assists the victim in completing the application documents and forwards them to the ACP office for processing. Certification of a Program Participant Upon receiving a properly completed application, ACP will certify the applicant as a program participant. The certification is effective for four (4) years unless otherwise cancelled before the expiration date. Upon certification, the participant is assigned a substitute address and issued an authorization card identifying the individual as an Address Confidentiality Program participant. Substitute Address The substitute addresses assigned to participants have no relation to their actual address. The address may be used as the participant’s residence, school and work address. The address is a post office box number and the same number is assigned to all participants. Authorization Card The ACP issues each participant a laminated authorization card that identifies the individual as a program participant. The authorization card includes the participant’s name, date of birth, authorization number, substitute address, expiration date and signature. Cards issued to minors or incapacitated persons are signed by the parent or guardian. In addition, the authorization card contains the ACP toll-free telephone number should questions arise about the program or the valid use of the card. An ACP participant must present his or her card to state and local government agencies in order for the substitute address to be accepted. Service of Process The Office of Attorney General serves as each participant’s agent for service of process and for receipt of mail. Mail received at the substitute address is forwarded to the program participant. Participants agree to accept all mail forwarded to them by the ACP. State and Local Agencies Program participants use the substitute address when interacting with state and local agencies. When presented with the authorization card, state and local agencies must accept the ACP substitute address as though it is the participant’s actual residence address. Agencies cannot require the participant to disclose his or her true address. Voter Registration Participation in the program allows eligible voters to apply to vote as an absentee voter. Neither the participant’s name nor address will appear on any list of registered voters made available to the public. Public Schools When a student presents his or her authorization card, the school must accept the ACP substitute address. The student does not have to disclose his or her actual address. Verification of enrollment eligibility and transfer of school records are handled by ACP staff. Confidentiality of Records Program participant’s records are confidential and cannot be released by ACP staff unless directed by a court of law. Verification of program participation is limited to state and local government. Program Cancellation The Address Confidentiality Program may cancel a program participant’s certification for any of the following reasons: Failure to notify the ACP of a change in address seven (7) days after moving. Mail forwarded by the ACP is returned undeliverable. Providing false or incorrect information upon making application to the ACP. Obtaining a name change. Administrative Rules and Standards for the Address Confidentiality Program Standards and Criteria for Address Confidentiality Program Last Modified on Jun 19, 2026 Back to top 313 NE 21st Street Oklahoma City, OK 73105 Contact Us US Constitution Oklahoma Constitution Oklahoma Statutes Oklahoma State Courts Network OAG Employee Login