.

421 NW 13th St., Suite 290 • Oklahoma City, OK 73103
Phone (405) 264-5006 • Toll Free (800) 745-6098 • Fax (405) 264-5097
Website: www.okvictimscomp.com E-mail: victimsservices@dac.state.ok.us

Instructions
The Claim Form must be received at the above address within one year of the crime.
If you move and leave no forwarding address, your claim may be denied, so please notify us of your correct mailing address.
Please thoroughly complete ALL sections and sign all three areas of page four.
You may e-mail your current address information to: victimsservices@dac.state.ok.us

ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
- Crime must be reported to law enforcement officials within 72 hours of the incident (may be waived for good cause).
- File this claim within one year of incident or death of victim (deadline may be waived in certain cases and for good cause).
- Victim was not the offender or accomplice and compensation would not benefit the offender or accomplice.
- There is economic loss after collateral resources have been deducted.
- Victim and claimant cooperated fully with the appropriate law enforcement agencies.
- The victim did not contribute in any way to the injury or death upon which the claim is based.
SECTION A Victim Information (Person who was injured, killed, or was in the direct threat of violence)
1) A Victim (defined as the person deceased, injured, or an eyewitness in the direct threat of violence, who suffered
physical or psychological injuries or death as a result of the crime).
2) A dependent of a victim who died as a result of the crime
3) A person authorized to act on behalf of the victim or dependent
Section B Complete only if the victim is: deceased, a child, or an incapacitated adult
Authorized claimants can be: 1) the parent of a minor child; 2) a dependent of a victim who has died because of a crime;
3) a person authorized to act on behalf of the victim or a dependent; or 4) a person legally responsible for payment of
expenses which have arisen because of a criminal act (example: person responsible for payment of funeral expenses).
SECTION C Contact person should be different than the victim and claimant information
This information should be provided in the event we are unable to contact the claimant by mail or telephone. The contact
person should be someone you trust to give you a message, someone who knows your whereabouts, and someone who
knows you were a victim of a crime. If a tribal victims’ assistance program is helping with the claim, the program contact
person may be listed in this section.
SECTION D - F Check all that apply and complete all blanks. If you are unable to answer a question, put N/A.
SECTION G Employment Information: Employed people who miss work after being a victim of a violent crime may qualify
for reimbursement of lost wages for the period of time he/she was recovering from the injuries (physical or psychological),
provided the crime prevented the person from working and the disability can be verified by a physician or mental health
professional and by the victim’s employer. There can be no compensation for loss of wages if the victim was paid for the
time off, regardless of the source of payment. Loss of support for dependents of a deceased victim can be compensated
if there is documentation that collateral sources (i.e., Social Security and Life Insurance) are less than the net income
provided by the victim prior to his/her death. If the victim was self-employed when the crime occurred or if taxes were not
withheld by the employer, tax returns for the past three years will be required before work loss or loss of support can be
considered. Work loss is computed based on the disability time specified by the physician or mental health professional
and the employer.
SECTION H Complete if the victim has dependents.
SECTION I Expenses Being Claimed: This area helps us to determine what documentation will be needed in order to make
a decision on your claim. Information about the Victim’s Injuries: List the injuries suffered as a result of the crime and
attach all itemized medical statements. List the hospital and/or the victim’s treating physician or mental health professional
SECTION J Complete this information about the offender, if known. If unknown, please indicate.
SECTION K- O Disclosures and signature sections.

THE CRIME VICTIMS COMPENSATION ACT DOES NOT PERMIT THE AWARDING OF FUNDS FOR
PAIN AND SUFFERING OR PROPERTY DAMAGE.

Types of Expenses Covered for Eligible Claims
Funeral / Burial – Up to $7,500 may be reimbursed for reasonable expenses related to a funeral, cremation, or burial of a
deceased victim.
Traditional American Indian Services – In addition to expenses listed throughout the instructions, expenses may also
be considered for reimbursement in traditional healing or burial ceremonies for American Indian victims of crime and
family members of American Indian homicide victims. The maximum allowable for burial related expenses, including
gifting, is $7,500. The maximum allowable for healing services is $3,000 for the injured victim. The maximum for healing
services for each family member after a homicide is also $3,000. The maximum award for all services compensated
through the Crime Victims Compensation Program may not exceed $20,000. If requesting reimbursement for healing or
burial ceremonies, please contact the Victims Compensation Program at 1-800-745-6099 for more information.
Future Economic Loss - Needed services which cannot be obtained without prior approval by the Victims Compensation
Board or payment in advance from the victim. To submit a request for future economic loss, include an itemized list of the
expenses you expect to incur, along with an explanation regarding the expense. For future dental work or surgery
necessary to repair damage from the criminal incident, ask the attending physician to write an accurate estimate which
clearly states the work to be performed and the cost. The attending physician should relate, in writing, the need for
medical treatment due to injuries sustained during the crime.
Income Loss / Economic Loss - Loss of income from work the victim would have performed if he/she had not been
injured. Work loss must be verified by the employer and the attending physician. Caregiver work loss can be awarded up
to $3,000, if the work loss is verified by the caregiver’s employer. Caregiver work loss may only be awarded up to $3,000
for persons who have unreimbursed wage loss due to caring for an injured victim of crime.
Dependent Care / Loss of Support - In the event of the death of a victim, the Board may consider providing
reimbursement for loss of support to a dependent based on the victim’s net income at the time of death, less any collateral
sources such as: Life insurance and uninsured motorist coverage (over $50,000), social security, workers compensation,
or 3rd party reimbursements.
Medical/Dental/Rehabilitation - Includes products, services, and accommodations for medical care directly related to the
crime (Examples: doctor exams, medical equipment, dental work, hospital expenses and prescriptions; physical therapy,
rehabilitative occupational training and other remedial treatment and care). Medical related fees owed to service
providers may be paid up to 80%, with a 20% required write off by the medical service provider.
Counseling for Victims / Mental Health - Counseling expenses may be paid up to 80%, with a 20% required write-off by
the mental health service provider. The maximum compensable amount for the victim’s counseling is $3,000. This limit
may be waived by the Board in extenuating circumstances.
Grief Counseling – Crisis counseling that is initiated within three years of the crime is compensable, up to $3,000 for
each family member of a homicide victim, provided the counselor is a qualified mental health professional. Medical and
pharmaceutical treatment for a family member of a homicide victim are not compensable.
Replacement Services - Expenses reasonably incurred and paid by the claimant to obtain ordinary and necessary
services in place of those the victim would have performed for the benefit of self or family, if the victim had not been
injured or died (e.g. mowing, cleaning, cooking, child care). Reimbursement for lost, stolen or damaged property losses
are not covered under the Act.
Crime Scene Cleanup and Impound Fees - Crime scene cleanup is compensable up to $2,000. Up to $750 may be
paid for vehicle impound fees, provided the victim/claimant is responsible for paying those fees that are associated with a
violent crime occurring in a vehicle, and provided the vehicle was held for evidentiary purposes.
Travel – Mileage may be reimbursed for medical or counseling appointments. Documentation from the provider verifying
the dates of services is required. Travel to and from court hearings are not eligible.

LIMITS OF COMPENSATION
The sum of all payments made to individual claimants and service providers on behalf of one victim may not exceed
$20,000.00. In addition to the initial award of $20,000.00, an additional $20,000.00 may be available for work loss or loss
of support. In no event shall the sum of all payments exceed $40,000.00. Funds may not be awarded for pain and
suffering or property crimes.

Revised June 2019

OFFICIAL CLAIM FORM
Please Return to: 421 N.W. 13TH STREET, SUITE 290 • OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA 73103
405/264-5006 or 800/745-6098 • Fax: 405/264-5097

SECTION A – VICTIM INFORMATION (Person who was killed, injured, or witnessed)
1. Victim’s First Name:

2. Middle Initial:

3. Last Name:

4. Date of Birth:

5. Age when the crime
was committed:

6. Social Security Number:

7. Gender:

8. Street Address, City, State, and Zip Code:
Email:
9. Mailing Address, City, State, and Zip Code (If different from Street Address):

10. Daytime Phone: (

)

11. Other Phone: (

)

12. Race/Ethnicity: (For statistical purposes only)
American Indian or Alaska Native: Tribal Affiliation:
Hispanic

Asian

Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander

Black or African American

White, Non-Latino /Caucasian

Other Race

13. Disabilities Prior to Victimization:

SECTION B – APPLICANT (CLAIMANT) INFORMATION (Only complete this section if victim is a minor, incapacitated or deceased.)
1. Claimant’s First Name:
2. Middle Initial:
3. Last Name:
4. Relationship to the victim shown above:

5. Street Address, City, State, and Zip Code:
Email:
6. Mailing Address, City, State, and Zip Code (If different from Street Address):

7. Daytime Telephone: (

)

8. Other Phone: (

)

9. Claimant’s SSN:

SECTION C – INFORMATION ON CONTACT PERSON (Do not list the victim or claimant or anyone living in the household.)
1. Contact’s First Name:
2. Middle Initial:
3. Last Name:
4. Contact’s Relationship to Victim:

5. Street Address, City, State, and Zip Code:

6. Mailing Address, City, State, and Zip Code (If different from Street Address):

7. Daytime Telephone: (

)

8. Other Phone: (

To Be Completed By VWC
Mailed to Claimant on

9. Check here if the Contact Person is a
Tribal Victim Advocate:

To Be Completed By OCVCB

/

/

VWC Initials _
Date Rec’d from Claimant

)

/

/

Claim #

_

District #

_

V/W Coord. F/R

Revised June 2019

PAGE 2 OF 4
SECTION D - INFORMATION ABOUT THE CRIME
2. Location of Crime
(Check Primary Location):

1. What crime was committed which led to the filing of this claim?
Arson
Assault
Burglary
Car Jacking
DUI/DWI
Child Physical Abuse/Neglect (under age 16)
Child Pornography (under age 16)
Child Sexual Abuse (under age 16)
Homicide
Human Trafficking
Identity Theft/Fraud/Financial Crimes (Only counseling can be compensated for this crime type.)
Kidnapping
Leaving the Scene
Robbery
Sexual Assault
Stalking
Terrorism
Other:

Bar or Club
Business (other than victim’s workplace)
Rural Area
Someone else’s apartment/home
Street
Vehicle
Victim’s workplace
Victim’s own apartment/home
Other:
City of Crime:
County of Crime:

3. Date of Crime:
4. Time of Crime:
5. If victim is a child, when was the crime disclosed by the child to an adult: Date:
6. When was the crime reported to the police? Date:

Time:

Time:

7. Who reported the crime?
8. What agency was the crime reported to?

SECTION E - INSURANCE INFORMATION
Is there any insurance coverage to assist with expenses being claimed?

Yes

No

If yes, please list all insurance coverage:

1. Health (Complete if medical is being claimed)
Company:

Phone: (

)

Member/Group Number:

Medicaid or Soonercare #

Check here if Medicaid or Soonercare recipient

2. Life Insurance (Complete if victim is deceased)
Company:

Amount Received: $

Beneficiary:

Relationship to victim:

Policy Number:
Phone: (

)

Address, City, State, Zip:

3. Car Insurance (Complete if the crime was vehicle related)
Company 1:
Phone (

Amount Received $
)

Policy Number:

Company 2:
Phone (

Agent Name:
Effective Date:

Amount Received $
)

Agent Name:

Policy Number:

Effective Date:

SECTION F – PRIVATE ATTORNEY INFORMATION: (COMPLETE IF THERE IS A LAWSUIT; DO NOT INCLUDE CRIMINAL CASE INFORMATION HERE)
1. Has the victim or claimant filed a civil lawsuit against anyone because of this crime

Yes

No

2. Attorney’s Name and Law Firm:
3. Attorney’s Phone: (

)

4. Attorney’s Address, City, State, and Zip:

How did you hear about this program? (Check One)
Medical Examiner

Victim Assistance Program

_

Police

DA’s Office

Funeral

Poster/Brochure

Hospital/Medical Provider

Other:

Revised June 2019

PAGE 3 OF 4
SECTION G - VICTIM’S EMPLOYMENT INFORMATION: (IF SELF-EMPLOYED, TAX RETURNS FOR THE LAST THREE YEARS WILL BE REQUIRED.)
1. Employer:
2. Occupation:
3. Employer’s Phone: (

)

_

4. Supervisor’s Name:
5. Employer’s Address, City, State, Zip Code:

6. Did the victim miss work due to the crime?

Yes

No

7. How many days of work did the victim miss due to physical or psychological injuries related to the crime?
a. From Date:

b. To Date:

8. Name of the doctor or mental health professional that released the victim to return to work:
9. Doctor or Mental Health Professional’s Phone: (

)

10. Doctor or Mental Health Professional’s Address, City, State, and Zip Code:

SECTION H - DEPENDENTS
Please list the victim’s dependents names and ages, if the victim is deceased:

SECTION I - EXPENSES BEING CLAIMED
☐ Funeral / Burial
☐ Medical
☐ Traditional American Indian Services ☐ Dental
☐ Loss of Support / Dependent Care
☐ Counseling / Mental Health
☐ Grief Counseling
☐ Income Loss for Victim
☐ Crime Scene Cleanup
☐ Income Loss for Caregiver

☐ Travel (doctor/counseling visits)
☐ Replacement Services
☐ Rehabilitation
☐ Future Economic Loss

Information about the Victim’s Injuries:
1. List the injuries (physical and psychological) caused by the crime:

2. List doctors, mental health professionals, and hospitals where the victim was, or is receiving treatment after the crime:

3. Funeral Home and address (if applicable):

SECTION J- OFFENDER INFORMATION (If known)
1. List those who committed or was charged with the crime(s):

2. Has there been an arrest?

Yes

No

3. Have charges been filed?

Yes

No

4. If charges were filed, what is the Criminal Case Number (if known):
5. Relationship of offender to victim (if any):

Revised June 2019

PAGE 4 OF 4

SECTION K - FILING DEADLINE
The Crime Victims Compensation form must be received in the Crime Victims Compensation Board office within one (1)
year of the date of the incident or death of the victim, regardless of whether you have all of the bills and supporting
documentation attached to the claim. The deadline may be extended up to two (2) years in certain circumstances, at the
Board’s discretion. For cases involving child sexual abuse, claims may be accepted past the two (2) year deadline.
SECTION L - CONFIDENTIALITY OF RECORDS
All records and information given to the Board to process a claim on behalf of a crime victim shall be confidential,
pursuant to 21 O.S. 142.9 (G) of the Oklahoma Statutes.
SECTION M - WITH MY SIGNATURE BELOW...
I agree that I have read and understand all instructions and eligibility requirements and agree that all unpaid bills or
portions thereof for services conducted for the victim be paid by the Crime Victims Compensation Board directly to the
supplier, if approved. Further, I hereby certify that the information contained in this claim is true, and I understand that the
filing of a false claim for compensation is a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment in the county jail for a term not to exceed one (1) year or both such fine and
imprisonment. In the event I receive compensation for my injuries from another source, after receiving an award from the
Crime Victims Compensation Board, I understand that I am responsible for reimbursing the Crime Victims Compensation
Board to the extent the Board awarded compensation to me. Also, if I file a lawsuit against the defendant or another
party, I agree to notify the Crime Victims Compensation Board immediately. Further, I understand that any restitution I
receive from the offender for expenses paid by the Crime Victims Compensation Board, must be reimbursed by me to the
Crime Victims Compensation Board.
Date Signed

_
Signature of Victim or Claimant
_
Print Victim or Claimant’s Name

SECTION N - RELEASE OF INFORMATION
I hereby authorize any hospital; physician; attorney; any person who treated or examined the victim; undertaker or other
person rendering funeral services; any employer of the victim; any police, municipal or public authority; Social Security
Administration; Department of Human Services; any federally funded agency; any insurance company; and any
organization having knowledge of this claim, to release any information with respect to the incident leading to the victim’s
personal injury or death and the claim made herewith for benefits, to the Oklahoma Crime Victims Compensation Board or
the District Attorney’s Office Victim-Witness Staff.
Date Signed

__
Signature of Victim or Claimant
_
Print Victim or Claimant’s Name

SECTION O - BY STATE LAW, YOU MUST BE ADVISED OF THE FOLLOWING:
The information authorized for release may include records which may indicate the presence of a communicable or noncommunicable disease which may include, but are not limited to, diseases such as hepatitis, syphilis, gonorrhea, and the
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), also known as Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS).
Date Signed

__
Signature of Victim or Claimant
_
Print Victim or Claimant’s Name

THIS CLAIM FORM MUST BE PRINTED AND SIGNED
THEN EITHER FAXED, EMAILED, OR MAILED
**NOTE TO SERVICE PROVIDERS**
Release of Information meets HIPAA requirements and does not have an expiration date.
Revised June 2019

