Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) - South Carolina Attorney General Inside the Office > Crime Victim Services Division Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) Please Note: If you are interested in enrolling in the Address Confidentiality Program, please contact the ACP at [email protected] or 803-734-4517 to be connected with an Application Assistant in your area. Our Mission The mission of the Address Confidentiality Program is to provide a designated substitute address to qualified applicants to keep their physical address from being located through public records. ADDRESS CONFIDENTIALITY PROGRAM GOVERNING STATUTE Application Assistant Information FOR POTENTIAL PARTICIPANTS To Locate an Application Assistant Contact the ACP at 803-734-4517 or email [email protected] for Application Assistants near you. FOR APPLICATION ASSISTANTS To Assist a Potential Participant At least 24 hours before meeting with a potential participant, contact [email protected] or call 803-734-4517 to request an application.  ACP staff will ask for the name(s) of the potential participant(s) and email you a prefilled form.  You will also receive a handbook of information that will help you answer questions. Application Assistant Trainings If your agency would like to schedule a training, please email [email protected] with the preferred date. Frequently Asked Questions What is the Address Confidentiality Program? The Address Confidentiality Program provides a substitute address for participants to use with S.C. state and local government agencies to keep their physical addresses out of public documents.  The ACP is most effective when used as part of an overall safety plan. Who is Eligible? Victims of domestic violence, human trafficking, stalking, harassment, or sexual offenses are eligible to apply for enrollment.  Participants must reside in South Carolina and be at least 18 years old, or the parent/legal guardian acting on behalf of a minor or incapacitated person.  If the applicant does not reside in S.C. at the time of application, he or she must have plans to move within 90 days. What Services are Offered? The ACP offers a substitute mailing address for program participants to use with all S.C. state and local government agencies.  Forwarding service for all first-class, registered and certified mail is provided.  The residential address will be kept private - all state and local government agencies will be required to use the substitute address in all records and communication.  The ACP will also act as the program participant's agent for legal service of process. What Kind of Mail is Forwarded? All first-class, registered and certified mail will be forwarded to the program participant.  The ACP will not forward packages, magazines, prescriptions, liquids, or junk mail. Will Mail Be Delayed? Yes.  Mail will be delivered to the ACP and then repackaged and forwarded to program participants.  Mail may be delayed 5-7 days. Can Other Household Members Participate? Anyone living in the household of the primary applicant can join the program as a co-applicant.  The primary applicant must be 18 years old, but a parent or legal guardian can apply on behalf of a minor or incapacitated person. All participants must reside in South Carolina. Who is Required to Accept the Substitute Address? All South Carolina state, county, and city government agencies and S.C. courts must accept the ACP designated mailing address as the program participant’s actual residential address. What Happens if Someone Refuses Use the Substitute Address? When someone refuses to accept the substitute address, please share the ACP phone number with the government agency or law enforcement, and we will be happy to discuss the program’s requirements.  However, private companies are not required to use the ACP substitute address Does The ACP Remove or Delete Existing Public Information? No. The ACP cannot delete information that already exists in public records. Is the ACP Like a Witness Protection Program No. The ACP does not hide program participants or help them change their identities, social security numbers, or location.  The ACP provides program participants with a substitute mailing address in lieu of a residential address that they can use with South Carolina government agencies.  The ACP should be used as part of a larger safety plan that the program participant should create with a Victim Service Provider. Is There Any Cost to Participate in the Address Confidentiality Program? No. There is no fee for participation in the program. Can Someone Be Removed From The Program? Yes.  The ACP may cancel a program participant’s certification under certain circumstances as provided in S.C. Code Ann. §16-25-130. Programa de Confidencialidad de Dirección de Carolina Del Sur Para Los Participantes - Haga Clic Aquí Contact Us E-mail: [email protected] Phone: 803-734-4517 Fax: 803-888-4990 Mailing Address 1205 Pendleton Street Columbia, South Carolina 29201 Hours: 8:30am – 5:00pm, Monday – Friday Questions? If you have questions, please reach out to our team and we'll work to get you the answers you need. Contact Us facebook twitter linkedin youtube Mailing Address The Honorable Alan Wilson P.O. Box 11549 Columbia, S.C. 29211 Office Address Rembert Dennis 1000 Assembly Street, Room 519 Columbia, S.C. 29201 Useful Links Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) History of the Office Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Careers Law Clerk Application Internship Application Tobacco Litigation Retention Agreements Opinions Meet the Attorney General News Post Conviction Relief Legal Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use Notice Under the Americans with Disabilities Act © 2026 South Carolina Attorney General's Office • Website by 37 Gears