Crime Victim Compensation FAQs - South Carolina Attorney General Inside the Office > Crime Victim Services Division > Crime Victim Compensation Crime Victim Compensation FAQs Who may file an application for Crime Victims' Compensation? State law permits persons who have been emotionally and or physically injured in a reported crime to law enforcement and are deemed eligible to be considered for certain benefits from DCVC. Individual victims, immediate family members, or their legal representatives/guardians can apply for consideration of crime victim compensation assistance. There are timeframes noted in the eligibility criteria section listed under the “Victim” tab that provides additional information regarding reporting the crime and filing the claim for services. An agency or medical facility cannot file for a crime victim, even if the victim is in its care or custody. Please contact DCVC for specific information regarding eligible crimes DCVC will consider. What does DCVC pay for? Based upon eligibility and the individual needs of the crime victim, DCVC is authorized to provide up to a total of $15,000 for medical and dental services with proper documentation. Please note other services and stipulations below: Counseling services (Please review the Payment and Reimbursement At A Glance booklet for additional information) Lost Wages/Loss of Support (Please review the Payment and Reimbursement At A Glance booklet for additional information) Funeral/Burial Expenses (Payment for funeral/burial expenses may be up to $6,500 with proper documentation) Can my dependents, parents, siblings or spouse file a claim for services without me? No, DCVC must have an application on the direct crime victim before we can consider providing services to family members and or indirect victims. There are specific crimes DCVC will consider for family members. Please contact DCVC for specific information regarding crimes DCVC will consider for family members. Who should sign the application? The actual person filing for benefits should sign the application if he or she is 18 years of age or older. If not, the parent with the physical custody or the person who legally represents the victim and has guardianship must sign as the "Claimant" (SC§ 16-3-1110). This should be the person who is assuming responsibility for the victim's crime related bills. Persons under 18 years of age are ineligible to be listed as a claimant to file for DCVC benefits. Will DCVC assist with my relocation expenses? No, DCVC will not assist with any relocation expenses. What doesn’t DCVC pay? DCVC cannot pay for the following types of service requests: Property Damage Property Replacement cost Crime Scene Clean-up Household Utilities Rent Mortgage Babysitting Expenses Groceries Attorney fees Pain and Suffering Can DCVC provide me with a referral for services? DCVC will provide the victim/claimant with contact information for the victim advocate located in the city or county in which the crime occurred. The advocate will be able to assist the victim by providing a list of resources in their area and make the necessary referrals to those agencies based upon the victims’ needs. If I was working at the time the incident occurred will DCVC pay for my expenses? If the victim was working at the time of the incident and injured on the job, the victim must apply with Workers’ Compensation. Per Section 16-3-1190, any award made may be offset by the amount of payment received from any private or public source, including an award of Workers’ Compensation. I was a victim of a traffic accident. Which traffic offenses will DCVC consider? DCVC will consider assisting victims of the following traffic related offenses: DUI Felony DUI Hit and Run Leaving the Scene of an Accident Reckless Driving Reckless Homicide I was involved in an auto accident and there is not enough insurance to cover my expenses. Can DCVC help me? Your claim will be reviewed and considered for eligibility upon receiving supportive documentation that your expenses exceed the amount of the insurance settlement. Supportive documentation includes the settlement statement, copies of your bills, and documents from your attorney. Yes, DCVC will contact your attorney to obtain documents and inform him/her of Subrogation Rights. If a victim is injured while confined or receives services while confined in a correctional facility will DCVC pay for his or her expenses? No award will be made if the victim is incarcerated in any penal system. If I am a resident of SC and was victimized in another country that doesn't have a victim compensation program will DCVC assist me? The victim may apply to DCVC for eligibility consideration as outlined in Section 16-3-1210, providing they have and submit proof of residency. Department of Crime Victim Compensation (DCVC) 8:30am - 5:00pm; Monday - Friday [email protected] 803-734-1900 1.800.220.5370 (victims only) Apply Now Fill out an application to apply for services provided by the Department of Crime Victim Compensation (DCVC). Download Application Questions? Contact our Department of Crime Victim Compensation to answer any questions you may have. Contact Us facebook twitter linkedin youtube Mailing Address The Honorable Alan Wilson P.O. Box 11549 Columbia, S.C. 29211 Office Address Rembert Dennis 1000 Assembly Street, Room 519 Columbia, S.C. 29201 Useful Links Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) History of the Office Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Careers Law Clerk Application Internship Application Tobacco Litigation Retention Agreements Opinions Meet the Attorney General News Post Conviction Relief Legal Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use Notice Under the Americans with Disabilities Act © 2026 South Carolina Attorney General's Office • Website by 37 Gears