Crime Victim Compensation - South Carolina Attorney General Inside the Office > Crime Victim Services Division Crime Victim Compensation The mission of the Department of Crime Victim Compensation (DCVC) is to minimize the impact of crime in South Carolina by providing financial compensation to eligible crime victims and their families and by ensuring accountability through monitoring local victim assistance funds. South Carolina has a Crime Victim Compensation Fund to help citizens with costs related to injuries received as a result of the crime . If you qualify for services, The Department of Crime Victim Compensation (DCVC) may reimburse some or all of the following costs depending on the law and policies guiding the use of the funds. Important note: DCVC is the Fund of Last Resort . This means if any other source is available to cover the cost of reimbursement, DCVC will defer to that source. Medical or Dental care; Counseling; Lost wages for you as the victim; or for you to take care of a child victim or incapacitated adult for whom you are responsible; Funeral/burial of a deceased victim. The claimant must incur the debt for the funeral/burial; Limited transportation costs. Quick Links How to Apply for Compensation Eligibility Criteria Application, Forms, Resources & Information Resources for Advocates & Providers Appealing a Denial Outreach & Training FAQs Portal for Providers Contact Us E-mail: [email protected] Phone: 803.734.1900 Toll Free: 1.800.220.5370 (Crime Victims Only, Please) Hours: 8:30am - 5:00pm; Monday - Friday Mailing Address: Edgar A. Brown Building, Room 401 1205 Pendleton Street Columbia, South Carolina 29201 Physical Address: Statehouse Complex Edgar A. Brown Building, Room 401 Columbia, South Carolina 29201 DCVC Application and Supplemental Forms South Carolina has a Crime Victim Compensation Fund to help citizens with costs related to injuries received as a result of the crime. Access the DCVC application and supplemental forms. View All Victim Assistance Fines, Fees and Assessment Fund - Auditing The Office of the Attorney General, Department of Crime Victim Compensation (DCVC) has worked very diligently with other agencies across the state to bridge the gap in victim services and continue to strive to provide the best quality of services to those who have been victimized. As a result, we have legislation enabling DCVC to provide oversight of the Victim Assistance Fines, Fees and Assessment Fund. Learn More facebook twitter linkedin youtube Mailing Address The Honorable Alan Wilson P.O. Box 11549 Columbia, S.C. 29211 Office Address Rembert Dennis 1000 Assembly Street, Room 519 Columbia, S.C. 29201 Useful Links Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) History of the Office Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Careers Law Clerk Application Internship Application Tobacco Litigation Retention Agreements Opinions Meet the Attorney General News Post Conviction Relief Legal Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use Notice Under the Americans with Disabilities Act © 2026 South Carolina Attorney General's Office • Website by 37 Gears