Section 7:43 Address Confidentiality Program. TITLE I THE STATE AND ITS GOVERNMENT CHAPTER 7 ATTORNEYS GENERAL, DIRECTOR OF CHARITABLE TRUSTS, AND COUNTY ATTORNEYS Address Confidentiality Program for Victims of Domestic Violence, Stalking, or Sexual Assault Section 7:43 7:43 Address Confidentiality Program. – I. An adult person, a parent or guardian acting on behalf of a minor, or a guardian acting on behalf of an incapacitated person, may apply to the attorney general to have an address designated by the attorney general serve as the person's address or the address of the minor or incapacitated person. The attorney general shall approve an application if it is filed in the manner and on the form prescribed by the attorney general and if it contains: (a) A sworn statement by the applicant that the applicant has good reason to believe that the applicant, or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made, is a victim of domestic violence, stalking, or sexual assault; and that the applicant fears for his or her safety, or his or her children's safety, or the safety of the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made; (b) A designation of the attorney general as agent for purposes of service of process and for the purpose of receipt of mail; (c) The mailing address where the applicant can be contacted by the attorney general, and the phone number or numbers where the applicant can be called by the attorney general; (d) The new address or addresses that the applicant requests not be disclosed for the reason that disclosure will increase the risk of domestic violence, stalking, or sexual assault; and (e) The signature of the applicant and the date on which the applicant signed the application. II. Applications shall be filed with the attorney general. III. Upon filing a properly completed application, the attorney general shall certify the applicant as a program participant. Applicants shall be certified for 4 years following the date of filing unless the certification is withdrawn or invalidated before that date. IV. A person who falsely attests in an application that disclosure of the applicant's address would endanger the applicant's safety or the safety of the applicant's children or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made, or who knowingly provides false or incorrect information upon making an application, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor. Source. 2000, 265:1, eff. Jan. 1, 2001.