Tennessee Code § 29-13-103 (2025) - Burden of proof — Documentation :: 2025 Tennessee Code :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Tennessee Code (here) 2024 Tennessee Code 2023 Tennessee Code View All Versions 2025 Tennessee Code Title 29 - Remedies and Special Proceedings Chapter 13 - Criminal Injuries Compensation Part 1 - General Provisions § 29-13-103. Burden of proof — Documentation Universal Citation: TN Code § 29-13-103 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next (a) The claimant has the burden of presenting to the division all facts necessary in determining whether the claimant is entitled to compensation under this part. No claimant shall be entitled to compensation unless the claimant proves by a preponderance of the evidence every requirement under this part for entitlement to compensation, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The occurrence of an offense as defined in § 29-13-104; (2) The offense proximately caused personal injury to or death of the victim; (3) The claimant is eligible for compensation pursuant to § 29-13-105; (4) The claimant has fully cooperated with the police and the district attorney general in the investigation and prosecution of the offender, except in cases involving a victim where it is determined that the victim's cooperation may be or had been impacted due to the victim's age, physical condition, psychological state, cultural or linguistic barriers, or any other health or safety concern that jeopardizes the victim's well-being, including, but not limited to, a reasonable fear of retaliation or harm that would jeopardize the well-being of the victim or the victim's family; (5) The amount of losses or expenses incurred by the claimant that are eligible for reimbursement pursuant to §§ 29-13-106 and 29-13-107; (6) If the claim is based upon the death of the victim and an award in excess of funeral and burial expenses is being sought, that the claimant was a dependent of the victim within the meaning of § 29-13-102(5); and (7) The victim or a member of the victim's family reported the offense to the proper law enforcement authorities within the time prescribed in § 29-13-108(a). (b) (1) The claimant must present written documentation to establish the facts required by subsection (a), including proof that an offense referenced in subdivision (a)(1) has occurred. (2) Such documentation must include, but is not limited to: (A) (i) Medical and funeral bills; (ii) Lost wage verifications; (iii) W-2 forms; or (iv) Death and birth certificates; and (B) Proof of an offense, which must include, at a minimum, the type of crime that occurred, the date of the crime, the name of the victim or victims, and the location of the crime. Proof of an offense may be demonstrated by providing documentation, including, but not limited to, the following: (i) A criminal conviction documenting the crime directly related to the claim filed; (ii) A law enforcement report documenting the commission of a crime; (iii) An information charging an individual with a crime filed by a prosecuting attorney; (iv) An indictment by a grand jury; (v) A written communication by a law enforcement agency indicating a crime has occurred relative to the claim filed; (vi) Court records evidencing the criminal prosecution of a crime relevant to the claim filed; (vii) Medical records from a healthcare provider, as those terms are defined in § 9-8-408; (viii) A written communication from a prosecuting attorney or investigating law enforcement officer who has personal involvement in the prosecution or investigation of any criminal case relative to the claim filed; (ix) A report from child protective services or another government agency; (x) A restraining order issued by a court; or (xi) Any other documentation requested by the division to show the commission of a crime. History Acts 1993, ch. 494, § 4; 2023, ch. 359, § 1; 2024, ch. 904, §§ 1, 2. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Tennessee may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Steven Gursten Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (855) 975-0874 Ann Arbor, MI Personal Injury Website Email Call Email Profile Daniel T. Geherin PREMIUM (734) 263-2780 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Domestic Violence, Personal Injury, Civil Rights Website Email Call Email Profile James Iafrate Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 994-0200 Ann Arbor, MI Personal Injury, Insurance Claims, Products Liability Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new Tennessee Supreme Court opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions