Tennessee Code § 29-13-118 (2025) - Forensic medical examinations in sexual assault cases :: 2025 Tennessee Code :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Tennessee Code (here) 2024 Tennessee Code 2023 Tennessee Code View All Versions 2025 Tennessee Code Title 29 - Remedies and Special Proceedings Chapter 13 - Criminal Injuries Compensation Part 1 - General Provisions § 29-13-118. Forensic medical examinations in sexual assault cases Universal Citation: TN Code § 29-13-118 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next (a) For purposes of this section, unless the context otherwise requires, “forensic medical examination” means an examination provided to a victim of a sexually-oriented crime by any health care provider who gathers evidence of a sexual assault in a manner suitable for use in a court of law. (b) (1) A victim of a sexually-oriented crime, defined as a violation of §§ 39-13-502 – 39-13-506, 39-13-522, 39-13-527, 39-13-531, and 39-13-532, shall be entitled to forensic medical examinations without charge to the victim. No bill for the examination shall be submitted to the victim, nor shall the medical facility hold the victim responsible for payment. All claims for forensic medical examinations are eligible for payment from the criminal injuries compensation fund, created under § 40-24-107. (2) Notwithstanding any provision of this part to the contrary, the victims shall not be required to report the incident to law enforcement officers or to cooperate in the prosecution of the crime in order to be eligible for payment of forensic medical examinations. (c) A claim for compensation under this section shall be filed no later than one (1) year after the date of the examination by the health care provider that performed the examination, including a hospital, physician, SANE program, Child Advocacy Center, or other medical facility. The claim shall be filed with the division, in person or by mail. The division is authorized to prescribe and distribute forms for the filing of claims for compensation. The claim shall set forth the name and address of the victim, and any other information required by the division in order to satisfy federal regulations issued under the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42 U. S. C. § 10601 et seq.). The claim shall be accompanied by an itemized copy of the bill from the health care provider that conducted the examination. The bill shall, at a minimum, set forth the name of the victim, the date the examination was performed, the amount of the bill, the amount of any payments made on the bill, and the name and address of the health care provider that performed the examination. (d) The amount of compensation that may be awarded under this section shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000), and shall constitute full compensation to the health care provider that provided the service. No provider receiving compensation pursuant to this section shall bill the victim for any additional cost related to the forensic medical examination. The compensation shall be made pursuant to this subsection (d) no later than ninety (90) days after receiving the documentation required under subsection (c). (e) Payment to a health care provider under this section does not prohibit the victim from receiving other payments for which the victim may be eligible under this part or any other law. History Acts 2007, ch. 511, § 1; 2008, ch. 1043, § 6; 2016, ch. 905, § 1. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Tennessee may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Steven Gursten Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (855) 975-0874 Ann Arbor, MI Personal Injury Website Email Call Email Profile Daniel T. Geherin PREMIUM (734) 263-2780 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Domestic Violence, Personal Injury, Civil Rights Website Email Call Email Profile James Iafrate Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 994-0200 Ann Arbor, MI Personal Injury, Insurance Claims, Products Liability Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new Tennessee Supreme Court opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions