Criminal Injuries Compensation
A program of the Tennessee Department of Treasury

Are you an innocent victim of violent crime
in Tennessee? There may be help.
A RESOURCE FOR VICTIMS
If you or someone you know has been an innocent victim of violent crime in Tennessee, the Criminal Injuries
Compensation Fund may be a financial resource for you. Criminal Injuries Compensation provides funds of
last resort to financially assist innocent victims of crime that results in personal injury. Victims and claimants
who meet eligibility requirements may be reimbursed for medical expenses, loss of wages, funeral expenses
and other unforeseen costs related to the crime. In the case of death, dependent family members and
anyone residing in the victim’s household may be eligible for compensation.
This brochure contains general information and is not intended to be used as a sole source. Please visit
treasury.tn.gov/injury for more information on the Criminal Injuries Compensation Program.

WHO IS ELIGIBLE?
Individuals may be eligible for financial assistance if they are:

The Victim
•

The victim of the crime (the individual who received personal injury)

Family Members
•

treasury.tn.gov
Scan the code with
your smartphone
camera to learn more.

•
•

A dependent family member of a deceased victim and anyone residing in
the deceased victim’s household
The family member of a homicide victim and anyone residing in the homicide victim’s household
who received mental health counseling
The family member and anyone residing in the victim’s household responsible for funeral/burial costs
A sibling or parent of a victim of child sexual abuse who has received counseling

•

A victim’s child who witnessed domestic violence against the parent and received counseling

•

Administrator

• The administrator of a deceased victim’s estate

Preventing Crime
•

Someone who was injured trying to prevent a crime or apprehend a criminal

A victim needs to meet the following conditions to be eligible for compensation:
The crime must be reported to authorities within 15 days unless victim is a minor
or there is good cause.
The crime must have happened in Tennessee.
The victim’s actions cannot contribute to the crime.
The victim/claimant must fully cooperate with law enforcement and efforts to prosecute.
A claim must be filed within two years of the crime unless there is good cause.

APPLY FOR COMPENSATION
In most cases, a claimant, the individual applying for compensation, is the individual responsible for
payment of expenses associated with the crime. Legal guardians must file claims for those under 18 or
those incapable of filing on their own behalf.
Complete and submit your claim online at Treasury.tn.gov/injury. Please be prepared to attach any
available relevant documents, such as a police report, death certificate, copies of bills and receipts, and
other documentation if available. Our office will contact you to obtain any necessary documents not
submitted with the application.

ELIGIBLE versus INELIGIBLE

• Medical Bills
• Lost Wages
• Funeral and Burial Expenses
• Loss of Financial Support of Dependents
• Pain and Suffering
• Moving Expenses
Based on state law, some restrictions apply.

• Deposits, Rent and Utility Bills
• Travel to Doctor Appointments
• Cost from Identity Theft or Fraud
• Lost, Stolen or Damaged Property
• Costs Covered by: Health Insurance,
Auto Insurance, Life/Burial Insurance,
Sick/Vacation Pay, Workers’ Comp,
Court-Ordered Restitution, Donations,
Home-Owner’s Insurance, ANY other
public or private resource

We are here to help, please do not hesitate to contact us with any questions or
for additional information and a full list of eligible and ineligible expenses.

treasury.tn.gov/injury
(833) 867-3891

David H. Lillard, Jr., State Treasurer

