Tennessee Code § 29-13-105 (2025) - Persons eligible for compensation :: 2025 Tennessee Code :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Tennessee Code (here) 2024 Tennessee Code 2023 Tennessee Code View All Versions 2025 Tennessee Code Title 29 - Remedies and Special Proceedings Chapter 13 - Criminal Injuries Compensation Part 1 - General Provisions § 29-13-105. Persons eligible for compensation Universal Citation: TN Code § 29-13-105 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next (a) Except as otherwise provided, the following person or persons shall be eligible for compensation pursuant to this chapter: (1) A victim of a crime; (2) In the case of the death of the victim, a dependent of the victim; (3) In the case of the death of a victim, where the compensation is for unreimbursed or unreimbursable mental health counseling or treatment made necessary by the death of the victim, a family member of the victim or person who resided with the victim, subject to the order of preference and priority between family members and persons who resided with the victim in accordance with title 40, chapter 38, part 3; (4) In the case of the death of the victim, where the compensation is for unreimbursed or unreimbursable funeral or burial expenses, to: (A) The legal representative of the estate of the victim; or (B) If no estate of the victim is opened, to: (i) Family of the victim, as defined in § 29-13-102; (ii) The victim's aunt, uncle, or cousin; or (iii) An individual related to the victim by blood; (5) In the case of the personal injury of the victim, where the compensation is for expenses incurred by any person responsible for the maintenance of that victim, to that person; (6) In the case of a sexually-oriented crime committed against a victim who is under eighteen (18) years of age, where the compensation is for unreimbursed or unreimbursable mental health counseling or treatment made necessary by the sexually-oriented crime, any sibling or non-offending custodial parent of the victim, or both; or (7) In the case of domestic assault committed against the victim, where the compensation is for unreimbursed or unreimbursable mental health counseling or treatment made necessary by the crime, any child of the victim who witnesses the crime and who is under eighteen (18) years of age. (b) A person who is criminally responsible for the crime upon which a claim is based, or an accomplice of such person, or anyone who has contributed to the crime in any respect, shall not be eligible to receive an award with respect to a claim under this chapter. (c) No compensation shall be awarded a victim who was, at the time of the personal injury or death, a member of the offender's family, if it is determined that any benefit would accrue, either directly or indirectly, to the offender. This subsection (c) shall not be construed to automatically disqualify a victim who was a member of the offender's family at the time of the injury or death. (d) A person who has been convicted of an offense under federal law with respect to any time period during which the person is delinquent in paying a fine, other monetary penalty, or restitution imposed for the offense shall not be eligible to receive an award with respect to a claim under this chapter. This subsection (d) shall not apply until the date on which the United States attorney general, in consultation with the director of the administrative office of the United States courts, issues a written determination that a cost-effective, readily available criminal debt payment tracking system operated by the agency responsible for the collection of criminal debt has established cost-effective, readily available communications links with entities that administer federal victim compensation programs that are sufficient to ensure that victim compensation is not denied to any person except as authorized by law. History Acts 1976, ch. 736, § 5; T.C.A., §§ 23-3505, 23-35-105; Acts 1986, ch. 911, § 3; 1989, ch. 129, § 4; 1990, ch. 755, §§ 4, 5; 1997, ch. 302, § 4; 2004, ch. 918, §§ 1-3; 2008, ch. 1043, § 3; 2023, ch. 176, § 1; 2024, ch. 904, § 3. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Tennessee may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Steven Gursten Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (855) 975-0874 Ann Arbor, MI Personal Injury Website Email Call Email Profile Daniel T. Geherin PREMIUM (734) 263-2780 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Domestic Violence, Personal Injury, Civil Rights Website Email Call Email Profile James Iafrate Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 994-0200 Ann Arbor, MI Personal Injury, Insurance Claims, Products Liability Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new Tennessee Supreme Court opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions