Tennessee Code § 40-38-602 (2025) - Crime victim address confidentiality program :: 2025 Tennessee Code :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Tennessee Code (here) 2024 Tennessee Code 2023 Tennessee Code View All Versions 2025 Tennessee Code Title 40 - Criminal Procedure Chapter 38 - Victims' Rights Part 6 - Home Address Confidentiality Program § 40-38-602. Crime victim address confidentiality program Universal Citation: TN Code § 40-38-602 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous Next (a) The secretary of state shall establish a crime victim address confidentiality program, which must be open to applicants who are victims of domestic abuse, stalking, human trafficking, rape, sexual battery, or another sexual offense, as well as co-applicants, the children of an applicant or co-applicant living at the same address as the applicant or co-applicant, and persons with disabilities for whom an applicant or co-applicant serves as a fiduciary and are living at the same address as the applicant or co-applicant if those persons satisfy the requirements of this part, at no cost to the program participant. (b) This program shall provide the participant with the use of a substitute address for the participant and shall not disclose the participant's name, confidential address, phone number, or any other information contained within the program participant's file except as otherwise provided by this part. (c) Whenever a program participant is required by law to swear to or affirm the participant's address, the participant may use the participant's substitute address. Wherever a program participant is required by law to establish residency, the participant may present evidence of program participation and use the participant's substitute address. Where residency must be verified in order to establish eligibility for public benefits, the governmental entity requiring verification shall submit a written request to the secretary of state, on a form prescribed by the secretary of state, whereby the secretary of state shall provide the governmental entity with a statement as to whether the program participant is eligible for benefits, based on the information known to the secretary of state. (d) The substitute address shall not be used: (1) For purposes of listing, appraising, or assessing property taxes and collecting property taxes; or (2) On any document related to real property recorded with a county clerk and recorder. (e) Notwithstanding any other applicable law, the substitute address may be used for motor vehicle records and may be printed on a person's driver or photo identification license. (f) Except as otherwise provided in this part, a program participant's confidential address, and any other information contained within a program participant's file, maintained by a state or local government agency, or disclosed by the secretary of state under this part, is not a public record. This subsection (f) shall not apply: (1) To any public record created more than thirty (30) days prior to the date that the program participant applied to be certified in the program; or (2) If a program participant voluntarily requests that a state or local government agency use the participant's confidential address or voluntarily gives the confidential address to the state or local government agency, except voter registration records and absentee ballot requests shall be confidential for purposes of this part. (g) For any public record created within thirty (30) days prior to the date that a program participant applied to be certified in the program, a state or local governmental agency shall redact the confidential address from a public record or change the confidential address to the substitute address in the public record, if a program participant presents evidence of program certification and requests the agency that maintains the public record to use the substitute address instead of the confidential address on the public record. (h) Except as provided in this part, where a program participant has provided evidence of program participation to a governmental entity, any record that includes a program participant's confidential address pursuant to this part shall be confidential and not available for inspection by anyone other than the program participant. (i) Notwithstanding any other applicable law, documentation concerning any tool of designation or identification or internal processes implemented by a governmental entity in documenting program participation within the governmental entity's records shall be confidential and not available for inspection. (j) An application or voter registration form completed under this part, along with any supporting materials, is not a public record that is subject to inspection and shall be kept confidential. History Acts 2018, ch. 1004, § 1; 2020, ch. 577, § 2; 2021, ch. 140, §§ 4-6. Previous Next Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Tennessee may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Sam Bernstein Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 883-9584 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Traffic Tickets, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Sara MacGregor PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Appeals & Appellate, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Megan  Smith PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI Website Email Call Email Profile Michael J. Vincent PREMIUM (734) 487-4970 Ypsilanti, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Peter Samouris PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Appeals & Appellate, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Timothy Doman PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Appeals & Appellate Website Email Call Email Profile Scott Grabel Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Appeals & Appellate, Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new Tennessee Supreme Court - Criminal Law opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions