Kansas Address Confidentiality Program:
Safe at Home
How Safe at Home Works
Safe at Home allows participants to use the substitute address provided by the attorney general on all
public records instead of the residential address required by other Kansas laws. Public records
include:
 Driver’s license, non-driver’s license and vehicle registration
 Voter registration
 Public school records
 Social services records for food stamps, cash assistance, child support, WIC, etc.
 Public library cards
 City or county records
 Law enforcement and court records
In addition, first-class and certified mail that is sent to the substitute address (post office box) will be
forwarded by Safe at Home—at no cost to the participant—to the participant’s actual location. The
participant must agree to accept all mail forwarded to them by the program. All state and local
agencies are required to accept the substitute address provided by the participant. Please keep in
mind, nongovernmental organizations, such as banks and private utilities, are not required to accept
this substitute address.

Eligibility Criteria
Anyone who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, trafficking, or stalking and fears for
their safety may apply to Safe at Home.
To be eligible to participate in the Safe at Home program, an individual must be:
1. A victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking and/or human trafficking or an adult family
member residing with a program participant; a parent acting on behalf of a minor; or a guardian
acting on behalf of an incapacitated person.
2. At least 18 years old or a parent or guardian applying on behalf of a minor or incapacitated person.
3. Located at or planning relocation to an address unknown to the perpetrator; and
4. Willing to make the attorney general office their legal agent for service of process and recipient of
first-class and certified mail.
How to Apply
All victims must go through a certified enrolling assistant to apply to participate in the program. A
person seeking enrollment cannot apply directly to the Attorney General’s office. Enrolling
assistants are individuals who are employed or affiliated with a certified enrolling agent and have
been trained and prepared to help the victims determine if they qualify for the program. After helping
the victim to determine if this program could work for them, the enrolling assistant will help them
complete the application process.
Enrolling agents are designated organizations that provide counseling and other services to victims of
domestic violence, sexual assault, trafficking, or stalking.
What happens when the application is approved?
After approval, program participants are considered certified in the program and will be notified
within a week (by mail from Safe at Home program coordinator) of their acceptance to Safe at
Home. Participants will receive a participant packet which will include a participant card to use as
verification of their participation in the program. Participants may begin using the substitute

address. Certification in Safe at Home is for a four-year period unless the participant is cancelled
from the program, or voluntarily cancels their participation from the program.
How do I use the substitute address?
Once certified in the program, participants will receive their participant card in the mail and can
begin using the substitute address. To use the substitute address, provide the substitute address to
private, local, and government agencies as your new legal address. Participant cards should be
carried with participants at all times, to provide to public entities. Never give out your confidential
address. If the participant encounters any problems when providing the substitute address to any state
or local agency, the participant should ask the agency to contact the Safe at Home program
coordinator at the Attorney General’s office.
What Safe at Home does and doesn’t do:
Safe at Home does:

 Authorize victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and human trafficking to use a
substitute address on public records with government agencies and the courts.
 Authorize participants to use a substitute address for receiving first-class mail, certified mail, and
legal documents.
 Provide a free mail-forwarding service for program participants.
 Enable participants to use the substitute address to meet the requirements for home, work, or
school address on public records.

Safe at Home does not:

 Serve as a witness protection program.
 Help participants change their identities or relocate.
 Remove or delete existing public records.
 Offer legal advice or representation.

