SEXUAL ASSAULT EXAMINATION PAYMENT POLICY
VICTIM COMPENSATION DIVISION
MISSISSIPPI OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
I.

Authority

The bill for the medical forensic examination and the preparation of the sexual assault
evidence collection kit will be sent to the Office of the Attorney General, Division of Victim
Compensation. No bill for the examination will be submitted to the victim, nor shall the medical
facility hold the victim responsible for payment. (Miss. Code Ann. § 99-37-25).
II.

Application and Payment Procedures
All bills submitted for payment should be accompanied by 1) a copy of the completed

Mississippi Forensics Laboratory Adolescent/Adult Acute ≤120 hours form or a copy of the
Mississippi Forensics Laboratory Prepubescent Acute ≤ 72 hours form and 2) a standard UB-04 or
appropriate billing form.
NOTE: It is not a requirement for the sexual assault to be reported to law enforcement for
a medical provider to receive reimbursement for the cost of the sexual assault forensic exam.
Though it is strongly encouraged that the victim reports the sexual assault to law enforcement,
reporting the assault is the victim's decision. This does not apply to state mandated reporting
requirements such as for minors, vulnerable adults, and certain violent crimes.
A.

Payment for Prepubescent, Adolescent or Adult exams collected outside of the
Acute window will be considered on a case by case basis.

B.

Copies of the completed sexual assault exam form should be distributed to the
agencies listed on the front of the examination form. Initial each space as
appropriate.

C.

A request for payment for the medical forensic examination must include an
appropriate International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10) Code for the
examination for the victim:
Encounter for exam and observation following alleged adult rape (ZO4.41);
Encounter for exam and observation following alleged child rape (Z04.42);
Assault by other bodily force, initial encounter (Y04.8XXA);
Child sexual abuse confirmed, initial encounter (T74.22XA);
Child sexual abuse suspected, initial encounter (T76.22XA);
Adult sexual abuse confirmed, initial encounter (T74.21XA); and
Adult sexual abuse suspected, initial encounter (T76.21XA).

The request for payment for the medical forensic examination must also include
appropriate Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) codes when applicable:
1.

Physician/ARNP, office or other outpatient services (CPT codes 9920199205 for New Patient, CPT codes 99211-99215 for Established Patient,
CPT codes 99241-99245 for office consultations); Emergency Department
Services (CPT codes 99281-99285 for the New or Established Patient)
which include the collection of evidence as needed in the sexual assault
kit.

2.

Venipuncture for the collection of whole blood samples (CPT codes
36400, 36405, 36406, 36410, 36415).

3.

Laboratory test for pregnancy (CPI codes 84702, 84703, 81025).

4.

HIV Testing (CPT codes 86701-86703, 87389) if medically
necessary.

5.

Hepatitis Panel (CPT codes 80074, 86705, 86709, 87340, 86803) if
medically necessary.

6.

RPR (CPT codes 86592, 86593, 86780) if medically necessary.

7.

Herpes Simplex (CPI codes 86694, 86696) if medically necessary.

8.

Gonorrhea culture (CPI codes 87040, 87070, 87081, 87590, 87591,
87592) if medically necessary.

9.

Chlamydia culture (CPT codes 87491, 87110) if medically necessary.

10.

Urinalysis (CPT codes 81000-81003, 81005, 81007, 81015) if medically
necessary.

11.

Urine culture (CPT codes 87086, 87088) if medically necessary.

12.

Trichomonas vaginalis (CPI codes 87660, 87205, 87210, 87661) if
medically necessary.

13.

Other laboratory tests if medically necessary.

14.

Colposcopy (CPT codes 56820, 57420, 57452, 99170).

15.

Camera/Other Photography (CPT code 99199). Use of this code requires
submission of additional report or information to indicate that a
camera/photography was used.

16.

Medication for prevention of STDs, Hepatitis B, pregnancy, and a three­
day supply of HIV prophylaxis.

III.

D.

If the victim refuses to have all or portion of the sexual assault exam completed,
make notes of that on the appropriate page(s) in the exam form. Payment will be
considered for a "partial exam" when allowable exam expenses are incurred, such
as medication treatment for prevention of STDs, Hepatitis B, pregnancy, and a
three-day supply of HIV prophylaxis.

E.

Expenses for procedures other than those listed above (see Section II. C.) must be
justified and submitted, in writing, as being necessary and directly related to the
medical forensic examination.

F.

Payments for the following are NOT ELIGIBLE under this policy but may be
paid by the Victim Compensation Program. The medical provider may not
apply for these program benefits. (See Section III. G.)
1.

Treatment for injuries

2.

Medication such as anti-depressants, sedatives or tranquilizers

3.

Ambulance service

Eligibility Guidelines

A.

In order to be considered for payment, the following criteria must be met:
1.

The crime must have occurred in Mississippi.

2.

If the victim is a minor and the exam is not conducted within the acute
time frame, the State of Mississippi Child/Adolescent< 18 year of Age
Sexual Assault Examination Form (Non-Acute> 72 hours) should be
used.

3.

Only costs associated with sexual assault medical forensic exams are
considered for payment through this program.

B.

A payment request from the medical provider should only be submitted for a
victim who is not covered by a federal or federally financed program, such as
Medicaid, Medicare, Tricare, or the Veterans' Administration. This stipulation
has been made pursuant to the federal Victims of Crime Act (VOCA). In addition,
a payment request should not be submitted for a victim covered by the Mississippi
Children's Health Insurance Plan (CHIP).

C.

A payment request should not be submitted for a victim who is covered by a state
facility where the incident occurred.

D.

The victim's private insurance should not be billed for the cost of the exam.

E.

A payment request from the medical provider should not be submitted for a
victim who was confined in a federal, state, county or city jail or correctional
facility at the time of the sexual assault. Contact the appropriate jail or
correctional facility for payment information.

IV.

F.

A payment request from the medical provider should not be submitted for a
medical forensic examination of the person arrested, charged or convicted of the
sexual assault. Such payment shall be made by the county directly to the medical
provider.

G.

Other expenses incurred by the victim not payable under these criteria may be
eligible for reimbursement through the Victim Compensation Program. Contact
the Victim Compensation Division at 800-829-6766 or download a Victim
Compensation application form here.
The medical provider may not apply for these program benefits.(See Section II.
F.)

Payment Procedures
A.

The bill for the exam should not be submitted to the victim.

B.

Include the physician/SANE charge on the hospital/clinic bill. If not possible, the
physician/SANE charge may be submitted on a separate bill.

C.

All bills submitted for payment should be accompanied by 1) a copy of the
completed Mississippi Forensics Laboratory Adolescent/Adult Acute :S 120 hours
form or a copy of the Mississippi Forensics Laboratory Prepubescent Acute :S 72
hours form and 2) a UB-04 or appropriate billing form and should be mailed to:

Office of the Attorney General
Victim Compensation Division
Post Office Box 220
Jackson, MS 39205
D.

V.

All requests for payment must be post-marked and received by the Office of the
Attorney General, Victim Compensation Division, within 120 days of the sexual
assault medical forensic examination. The 120 days may be waived if the medical
provider can show good cause for failure to submit the payment request within
such time frame. Good cause will be determined on a case by case basis. (Refer to
Section VII. Appeal Process guidelines.)

Payment Amount
A.

The Office of the Attorney General will pay up to $1,000 per case. This fee
includes the following limits;
1.
2.

All Physician, Nurse Practitioner, or Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner's
(SANE) fee ($350)
Facility fee ($450) - this fee includes supplies, equipment and
medications for the prevention of STDs, ECP, Hepatitis B, pregnancy
(ECP) and a three-day supply of HIV prophylaxis

3.

VI.

Vil.

Fees for lab tests ($200)

B.

Payment made to the medical provider by the Office of the Attorney General,
Victim Compensation Division for the sexual assault forensic examination shall
be considered by the medical provider as payment in full.

C.

The medical provider may not submit any remaining balance to the victim or to
the Victim Compensation Division after payment for the sexual assault medical
forensic examination by a federal or federally financed program, such as
Medicaid, Medicare, Tricare, or the Veterans' Administration, by a state financed
program such as Mississippi Children's Health Insurance Plan (CHIP), or by
coverage provided by a state facility where the crime occurred. Exception: If, for
example, the victim has a co-pay or has used all of their allowed paid medical
visits with Medicaid, the medical provider may submit those sexual assault exam
expenses to the Victim Compensation Division for payment consideration.

Submitting Sexual Assault Exam Forms to Law Enforcement
A.

All pages of the sexual assault exam form must, in their entirety, be submitted to
law enforcement when the victim reports the sexual assault to law enforcement or
when the victim falls under the state mandated reporting requirements.

B.

If the victim refuses to have any or portions of the exam completed, make notes of
that on the appropriate pages(s) in the exam form.

Appeal Process
A.

Reconsideration: If the Victim Compensation Division denies a payment request,
for any reason, the medical provider may appeal the decision, by notifying the
Division in writing.
1.

The written request for a reconsideration should be provided within thirty
(30) days from the date the medical provider receives the decision
notification from the Victim Compensation Division.

2.

The request for a reconsideration should include the following and clearly
state: (a) that the medical provider is requesting a reconsideration; (b) in
a brief statement, the reason the provider is requesting a reconsideration;
and (c) any information omitted from the original payment request that
would have resulted in a different decision had the information been
provided to the Division.

3.

If the medical provider submits a reconsideration request outside the thirty
(30) day timeline as referenced in VII. A. l ., the request must include a
justifiable reason for not submitting the reconsideration request within
thirty (30) days.

B.

Contested Hearing: If the Victim Compensation Division upholds the original
decision for any reason, the medical provider may appeal the decision by
notifying the Division in writing.
1.

The written request for a contested hearing should be provided within
thirty (30) days from the date the medical provider receives the
decision notification from the Victim Compensation Division.

2.

The request should include the following and clearly state: (a) that the
medical provider is requesting a contested hearing; (b) in a brief
statement, the reason the provider is requesting a contested hearing;
and (c) any information omitted from the original payment request
that would have resulted in a different decision had the information been
provided to the Division.

3.

If the medical provider submits a contested hearing request outside the
thirty (30) day timeline as referenced in VII. B. l ., the request must include
a justifiable reason for not submitting the reconsideration request within
thirty (30) days.

C.

The medical provider will be notified of all appeal request decisions in writing.

D. .

Circuit Court: The medical provider who disagrees with the contested hearing
decision may appeal to the Circuit Court where the medical provider is located
or the Circuit Court of the First Judicial District of Hinds County by filing a
petition with the clerk of the court and executing and filing bond payable to the
State of Mississippi with sufficient sureties to be approved by the clerk of the
court, conditioned upon the payment of all costs of appeal, including the cost of
preparing the transcript of the hearing before the Attorney General. The petition
and bond shall be filed within thirty (30) days of receipt of the final decision of
the Attorney General.

