Bureau of Victim Assistance - Attorney General Lynn Fitch Bureau of Victim Assistance The Bureau of Victim Assistance (BOVA) was established to provide statewide assistance to victims of crime. The journey through the justice system can be traumatic, especially for victims of crime. BOVA offers victims and their loved ones a single point of contact they can turn to before and after their offender is sentenced. Services provided by our advocates are listed below Assistance obtaining victims’ rights Assistance with the Crime Victim Compensation Application Criminal justice and court related services Information about the Mississippi Crime Victims’ Bill of Rights General information and referral to appropriate victim service providers Notification of Court of Appeals and Supreme Court decisions Personal advocacy and support services Victim Advocacy If you have questions or need assistance, contact us at victimassistance@ago.ms.gov. Court Clerk Forms Resources: Domestic Abuse Protection Order brochure Domestic Abuse Protection Order brochure in Spanish Domestic Abuse Protection Order brochure in Vietnamese Emergency DAPO Reference Guide Instructions Petition for Domestic Abuse Protection Order form MS Protection Order Registry (MSPOR) Petitions and Orders: Petition for Domestic Abuse Protection Order form Petition for Domestic Abuse Protection Order Form (Fillable) Ex Parte Emergency Domestic Abuse Protection Order form Order to Continue Hearing and Extend Ex Parte DAPO form Temporary Domestic Abuse Protection Order form Final Domestic Abuse Protection Order form Order Dissolving Protection Order Order Dismissing Petition for DAPO Failure to Appear or on Motion of Petitioner Order Amending Domestic Abuse Protection Order Criminal Domestic Abuse Protection Order Criminal Sexual Assault Protection Order Service of Process: Notice to Respondent of Entry of Ex Parte DAPO and Summons Notice to Respondent of Filing of Petition for DAPO and Summons Human Trafficking Assessment: Assessment for the Victims of Human Trafficking and Commercial Sexual Exploitation Fund Bench Cards Domestic Abuse Protection Orders Temporary and Final DAPO Appeal Process If you have any questions or need assistance, please contact Teri Gleason at 601-359-4279. Victim Advocates Our advocates can help crime victims and their families through this difficult experience. Our goal is to help victims understand the judicial process, advocate for their rights, and maintain contact, ensuring they are informed on matters pertaining to their case. For information on how to obtain these services, contact us at 1-800-829-6766. Assistance provided includes court accompaniment, investigation and case updates, and notifications mandated by the Mississippi Crime Victims’ Bill of Rights. View a video presentation of your rights by the staff of the Attorney General’s Office here . You can also read more in our Crime Victims Guide . Find Your Advocate Advocates are located across Mississippi, and they stand ready to assist. Northern District Advocate: Vanessa Wilbert Central District Advocate: Maya Edwards Southern District Advocate: Teya Cooper Victim Advocates By Region If you have any additional questions, please speak to your advocate or contact us at victimassistance@ago.ms.gov. Helpful Links Mississippi Crime Victims’ Bill of Rights Mississippi Crime Victims' Bill of Rights in Spanish Mississippi Crime Victims Bill of Rights in Vietnamese Bill of Rights Victims Resources Insert Card Checklist for Law Enforcement Officers Checklist for Clerk’s Office State of Mississippi Request to Exercise Victims’ Rights Sexual Assault Crime Victims' Bill of Rights Sexual Assault Crime Victims' Bill of Rights in Spanish Sexual Assault Crime Victims' Bill of Rights in Vietnamese Address Confidentiality Form Post Conviction Procedures Guide Crime Victim Criminal Appeal Process Notification Form Mississippi Victim Services Resource Directory View our Crime Victims’ Bill of Rights Victim Resources Insert Card HERE . Mississippi Victim Services Resource Directory Victim Services By County Victim Compensation The Victim Compensation Program provides financial assistance to innocent victims of violent crime and their eligible family members. The Program helps to reduce the financial burden resulting from a violent crime by reimbursing eligible victims/family members for their crime-related expenses not covered by any other benefit source (insurance, Medicaid, Medicare, disability/death benefits, Workers’ Compensation, etc.). Limitations do apply. You can read more about this program here . View our Crime Victims’ Bill of Rights Victim Resources Insert Card here . The program brochure is also available in Spanish and Vietnamese. Complete the Crime Victim Compensation (CVC) Application online here . To provide additional information for a current claim, complete the Subsequent Submission Form here and use “Crime Victim Compensation” for claim type. The optional Victim Compensation Contact Request form can be found here . If you prefer to print the application and submit it, please click here .  The Crime Victim Compensation Application is also available in Spanish and Vietnamese. Eligible applicants may be reimbursed for crime related expenses associated with: medical/dental treatment rehabilitation mental health services lost wages loss of support (dependent[s] of homicide victim) tuition loss funeral costs limited transportation costs repair/replacement of exterior windows, doors, and locks damaged during a crime, domestic violence temporary housing and relocation crime scene cleanup Helpful Links FAQs Provider's Application Status Request Sexual Assault Payment Policy Mississippi Administrative Code: Title 3, Part 1 Crime Victims Guide Sexual Assault Examinations Pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. § 99-37-25, the bill for a medical forensic examination and the preparation of the sexual assault evidence collection kit will be sent to the Office of the Attorney General, Division of Victim Compensation. No bill for the examination will be submitted to the victim, nor shall the medical facility hold the victim responsible for payment. The Attorney General’s Office Sexual Assault Payment Policy can be found here . If you are a provider who administers Sexual Assault Forensic Exams, you can submit your reimbursements here. If you have any questions, please contact us at victimassistance@ago.ms.gov . In 2022 and 2023, Attorney General Lynn Fitch worked with Sexual Assault Nurse Examiners and other stakeholders to update the 15-year-old Sexual Assault Forensic Examination kits in line with advanced technology. The new kits reduce the number of steps in the evidence collection process from 21 to 9, reducing the duration of the evidence collection and trauma to the victim. These new forms can be found here: Prepubescent Exam Acute Less Than or Equal to 72 Hours Adolescent-Adult Acute Less Than or Equal to 120 Hours Appendix: MS Sexual Assault Kit Guidelines The older forms can be found here should you need to access those: Child/Adolescent Sexual Assault Exam Form Acute Less Than or Equal to 72 Hours Child/Adolescent Less Than 18 YOA Sexual Assault Exam Form Non Acute Greater Than 72 Hours Adolescent/Adult Sexual Assault Exam Form Acute Less Than/Equal To 72 Hours Also, in 2023, the Mississippi Legislature passed HB 485, establishing protocols for collection, processing, and tracking of Sexual Assault Forensic Examination kits to improve transparency for victims and increase the likelihood of thorough investigations and successful prosecutions of sexual assault cases in Mississippi. Sexual assault victims can track their sexual assault examination kit here . HB 485 also added new rights to the Mississippi Crime Victims’ Bill of Rights specific to victims of sexual assault. Those rights can be found in this brochure . This brochure can also be found in Spanish and Vietnamese . Law Enforcement Officers and Fire Fighters Disability Benefits Trust Fund The Law Enforcement Officers and Fire Fighters Disability Benefits Trust Fund was created by the Mississippi Legislature to provide disability benefits to law enforcement officers and fire fighters injured in the line of duty. For a full overview of the program, view Mississippi Administrative Code: Title 3. Part 2 . See links to each application below Law Enforcement Officers and Fire Fighters Disability Online Application To submit additional information for a current claim use the Subsequent Submission Form and mark “Law Enforcement” or “Fire Fighter” as the claim type Application for Recertification of Benefits If you have any questions about this program, please contact us at LEOFFFund@ago.ms.gov or 601-359-6766. Helpful Links Return to work sample letter Law Enforcement and Firefighter Benefits and Resources Interpersonal/Domestic Violence A Domestic Abuse Protection Order is a specific kind of restraining order available to individuals who are victims of domestic abuse, including physical violence, threats of physical violence, stalking, or sexual assault. Resources: Create a Domestic Abuse Protection Order (DAPO) Petition to protect yourself or someone else from domestic violence Domestic Abuse Protection Order brochure Domestic Abuse Protection Order brochure in Spanish Domestic Abuse Protection Order brochure in Vietnamese Emergency DAPO Reference Guide Instructions for Domestic Abuse Protection Order Petitions and Orders: Petition for Domestic Abuse Protection Order form Petition for Domestic Abuse Protection Order Form (Fillable) Ex Parte Emergency Domestic Abuse Protection Order form Order to Continue Hearing and Extend Ex Parte DAPO form Temporary Domestic Abuse Protection Order form Final Domestic Abuse Protection Order form Order Dissolving Protection Order Order Dismissing Petition for DAPO Failure to Appear or on Motion of Petitioner Order Amending Domestic Abuse Protection Order Service of Process: Notice to Respondent of Entry of Ex Parte DAPO and Summons Notice to Respondent of Filing of Petition for DAPO and Summons My office also created a few documents to provide guidance for survivors and their friends and family. See brochures below Strangulation Stalking Dating Violence Human Trafficking Revenge Porn If you have any additional questions, or if you wish to speak to a victim advocate, please contact us at victimassistance@ago.ms.gov. Useful Links VineLink : This free service allows crime victims and concerned citizens to obtain timely and reliable information about criminal cases and the custody status of offenders 24 hours a day. Please click here to register for this service. Victims and other concerned citizens can register to be notified by phone, email, text message (SMS) or TTY device when an offender’s custody status changes. VINELink mobile app is now available by accessing their website. This service is provided by the Mississippi Department of Corrections. Child Abuse and Neglect Hotline : The Mississippi Department of Child Protection Services provides a toll free hotline (1-800-222-8000) and online access for reporting child abuse and neglect. National Center for Missing and Exploited Children : The NCMEC “get help now” page includes information on reporting a missing child, reporting tips to help find a missing child, and a cyber tipline for information on children being exploited online. Mental Health Helpline : For more information about services or if you or a loved one needs help, call the Mississippi Department of Mental Health’s Helpline at 1-877-210-8513 or visit the helpline web page. Suicide Prevention Lifeline : The Lifeline (1-800-273-8255) provides 24/7, free and confidential support for people in distress, prevention and crisis resources for you or your loved ones, and best practices for professionals. Veterans Crisis Line : The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs runs a crisis line for veterans in need of help.  You can connect with caring, qualified responders, many of whom are veterans themselves, by calling 1-800-273-8255 (Press 1) or chatting online. National Human Trafficking Hotline: If you or someone you know is a victim of human trafficking, call 1-888-373-7888 or text HELP or INFO to BEFREE (233733) Victims of Human Trafficking and Commercial Sexual Exploitation Fund: In 2020, the Mississippi Legislature established the Victims of Human Trafficking and Commercial Sexual Exploitation Fund in order to provide funding for direct service providers who serve victims of sex and labor trafficking. Miss. Code Ann. §97-3-54.11. The fund is funded by, among other things, assessments for certain criminal convictions and legislative appropriations. Teri Gleason, Bureau of Victim’s Assistance (BOVA) Teri is a lifelong resident of the Jackson metro area. She earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Paralegal Studies from the University of Southern Mississippi in 1986 then went on to be a paralegal at the Heidelberg & Woodliff firm in Jackson. In 1995, she was accepted to Mississippi College School of Law where she earned her Juris Doctorate in 1998. Prior to entering public service in 2020, her law practice included oil and gas defense, business litigation, large loss subrogation, and family law. Home Accounting Bureau of Victim Assistance Children's Justice Civil Litigation Communications Constituent Outreach Consumer Protection Criminal Appeals Cyber Crime Executive Information Technology Investigations Medicaid Fraud Control Unit Opinions and Policy Prosecutor and Law Enforcement Training Public Education and Community Engagement Public Integrity Solicitor General State Agencies Strategic Law Enforcement Partnerships Contact Us 601.359.3680 P.O. Box 220, Jackson MS 39205 550 High Street, Jackson MS 39201 Privacy Policy & Legal Disclaimer