Mississippi Code § 99-37-25 (2025) - Payment by Division of Victim Compensation of costs associated with medical forensic examination and sexual assault evidence collection kit; defendant to make restitution to Division of Victim Compensation :: 2025 Mississippi Code :: U.S. Codes and Statutes :: U.S. Law :: Justia Go to Previous Versions
                            of
                            this Section 2025 Mississippi Code (here) 2024 Mississippi Code 2023 Mississippi Code View All Versions 2025 Mississippi Code 1972 Title 99 - Criminal Procedure (Chs. 1 - 51) Chapter 37 - Restitution to Victims of Crimes (§§ 99-37-1 - 99-37-25) § 99-37-25. Payment by Division of Victim Compensation of costs associated with medical forensic examination and sexual assault evidence collection kit; defendant to make restitution to Division of Victim Compensation Universal Citation: MS Code § 99-37-25 (2025) Learn more This media-neutral citation is based
                        on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
                        necessarily the official citation. Previous (1) (a) When a person is brought into a doctor’s office, a hospital or a medical clinic by a law enforcement agency as the victim of an alleged rape or sexual assault having occurred in this state, or comes into a doctor’s office, a hospital or a medical clinic alleging rape or sexual assault having occurred in this state, the bill for the medical forensic examination and the preparation of the sexual assault evidence collection kit will be sent to the Division of Victim Compensation, Office of the Attorney General. The Division of Victim Compensation shall pay for the medical examination conducted for the procurement of evidence to aid in the investigation and prosecution of the alleged offense. Such payment shall be limited to the customary and usual hospital and physician charges for such services in the area. Such payment shall be made by the Division of Victim Compensation directly to the health care provider. No bill for the examination will be submitted to the victim, nor shall the medical facility hold the victim responsible for payment. The victim may be billed for any further medical services not required for the investigation and prosecution of the alleged offense. In cases where the damage caused by the alleged sexual assault requires medical treatment or diagnosis in addition to the examination, the patient will be given information about the availability of victim compensation and the procedure for applying for such compensation. (b) Upon application submitted by the district attorney, provided the proper warrant or court order has been issued, the county in which an offense of sexual assault or of felonious abuse or battery of a child as described in Section 97-5-39, touching or handling a child for lustful purposes as described in Section 97-5-23, exploitation of children as described in Section 97-5-33 or sexual battery as described in Section 97-3-95, or statutory rape as defined in Section 97-3-65, or an attempt to commit such offense has occurred shall pay for a medical forensic examination of the person arrested, charged or convicted of such offense to determine if the person so arrested, charged or convicted has any sexually transmitted disease and for the collection of evidence. Such payment shall be made by the county directly to the health care provider or other service performing the collection of evidence and tests. At the victim’s request, a test for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) shall be administered to the defendant/accused not later than forty-eight (48) hours after the date on which the information or indictment is presented, and the defendant/accused shall be subjected to follow-up testing for HIV upon a determination that such follow-up testing is medically necessary and reasonable. The results of any such test shall be confidential but shall be made available to the victim or, if the victim is a child, to the guardian of the victim. After an indictment, if the case is dismissed, the defendant is found not guilty or the case is not prosecuted within three (3) years of the indictment, all records of tests shall be returned to the accused or destroyed. Upon a showing of good cause, the court may retain such records and allow a case to remain open after the expiration of the three-year limitation provided herein. (2) Any defendant who is convicted of, or pleads guilty or nolo contendere to, any offense or an attempt to commit any such offense specified in subsection (1)(b) shall be ordered by the court to make restitution to the Division of Victim Compensation in an amount equal to the compensation paid by the Division of Victim Compensation to the victim or medical provider for the medical forensic examination and to the county for tests for sexually transmitted diseases. Such restitution shall be in addition to any restitution which the court orders the defendant to pay the victim under the provisions of Chapter 37 of Title 99, (Sections 99-37-1 through 99-37-21), Mississippi Code of 1972. (3) The Division of Victim Compensation is hereby authorized, in its discretion, to make application for and comply with such requirements as may be necessary to qualify for any federal funds as may be available as a result of services rendered to crime victims under the provisions of this section. History Laws, 1987, ch. 466; Laws, 1997, ch. 509, § 1; Laws, 1999, ch. 560, § 1; Laws, 2005, ch. 507, § 1; Laws, 2007, ch. 587, § 1, eff from and after July 1, 2007. Previous Disclaimer: These codes may not be the most recent version. Mississippi may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources. Free Daily Summaries in Your Inbox You're all set! You already receive all suggested Justia Opinion Summary Newsletters. You can explore additional available newsletters here . Free Webinars for All Mistakes in Estate Planning and How To Correct Them [CLE] Tereina Stidd Oct 5, 1 pm ET / 10 am PT Previewing the 2026–2027 Supreme Court Term: Breaking Down This Year's Docket [CLE] Vikram Amar Michael Dorf Oct 6, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT Wrongful Death Litigation: A National Survey of Claims & Damages [CLE] James R. Haug Oct 7, 2 pm ET / 11 am PT View All Webinars › Justia Webinars are free and open to all, lawyers and non-lawyers. For CLE accreditation details, please visit individual webinar pages. Ask a Lawyer Get Free Answers Find a Lawyer Lawyers - Get Listed Now! Get a free directory profile listing Sponsored Listings Sam Bernstein Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (734) 883-9584 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Traffic Tickets, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Peter Samouris PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Appeals & Appellate, Domestic Violence Website Email Call Email Profile Timothy Doman PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Appeals & Appellate Website Email Call Email Profile Daniel T. Geherin PREMIUM (734) 263-2780 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime, Domestic Violence, Personal Injury, Civil Rights Website Email Call Email Profile Megan  Smith PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI Website Email Call Email Profile William McCririe PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Criminal Law, DUI & DWI, Domestic Violence, Juvenile Law Website Email Call Email Profile Scott Grabel Lawyers, want to be a Justia Connect Pro too? Learn more › PREMIUM (800) 342-7896 Ann Arbor, MI Appeals & Appellate, Criminal Law, Domestic Violence, DUI & DWI, Juvenile Law, White Collar Crime Website Email Call Email Profile Toggle button Get free summaries of new Supreme Court of Mississippi - Criminal Law opinions delivered to your inbox! Justia Legal Resources Find a Lawyer Bankruptcy Lawyers Business Lawyers Criminal Lawyers Employment Lawyers Estate Planning Lawyers Family Lawyers Personal Injury Lawyers More... Individuals Bankruptcy Criminal Divorce DUI Estate Planning Family Law Personal Injury More... Business Business Formation Business Operations Employment Intellectual Property International Trade Real Estate Tax Law More... Law Schools Dictionary Admissions Financial Aid Course Outlines Law Journals Blogs Employment More... U.S. Federal Law U.S. Constitution U.S. Code Regulations Supreme Court Circuit Courts District Courts Dockets & Filings More... U.S. State Law State Constitutions State Codes State Case Law California Florida New York Texas More... Other Databases Legal Jobs Legal Blogs Business Forms Product Recalls Patents Trademarks Countries More... Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Justia Premium Placements Justia Elevate (SEO, Websites) Justia Amplify (PPC, GBP) Justia Onward Blog Testimonials More... © 2026 Justia Justia Connect Legal Portal Company Help Terms of Service Privacy Policy Marketing Solutions