Application - Violent Crimes Compensation Board - State of Alaska Quick Exit Application adba1f66_admin December 26, 2023 June 15, 2026 COMPENSATION Application Filling out an application is the first step to receiving financial assistance . You can apply even if you don’t yet know all your expenses—submitting an application ensures your eligibility moving forward. Applying as soon as possible after the crime increases your chances of being eligible for assistance. Delays in submitting an application could affect your eligibility. ONLINE APPLICATION PAPER APPLICATION How to Apply Innocent victims of crime, certain relatives, dependents, legal guardians and individuals that incurred an expense as the direct result of a crime may be eligible. Whether applying online, by email, fax or through a printed application, please ensure the Release of Information on the final page is signed and included. We encourage applicants to work with advocates to complete the application process. After submitting your application, our office may request additional information. A representative will contact you to update the status of your claim. To strengthen your application, include copies of any supporting documents, such as bills or insurance information. If you need help with the application, contact our office—we’re here to assist. Online Mail Fax Additional Languages Online Follow the link and fill out all information to the best of your ability. Additional information may be requested or uploaded at a later date. Create an account on our portal here . Mail You may fill out and send in the application by mail. 4300 Boniface Pkwy Anchorage, AK 99504 DOWNLOAD APPLICATION Fax You may fill out and fax in the application. fax: (907) 465-2379 DOWNLOAD APPLICATION Additional Languages The Violent Crimes Compensation Board is committed to providing access to services. Applications are available in multiple languages listed below. If your language is not listed and you would like assistance with the application process, please contact our office. Translation services are at no cost to you. Spanish Tagalog Samoan Russian Hmong Chinese- simplified Additional Forms Additional information may be required based on the request being made. If you have the information already, you can send all supplemental documents at the time of the application; if not, information can be added at a later date. Use this form if your provider requests an updated release of information. I f you paid directly for any of these services, please save your receipts to send in as verification. Counseling Relocation Loss of Income Property Replacement Rental Assistance Counseling Mental health treatment is available to all eligible applicants. However, there are session rate limits and treatment plans are required for services beyond the initial award. All services must be connected to the crime that occurred. If you are interested in additional counseling beyond the initial award, please contact our office. Relocation Relocation may only be eligible specific instances, such as when an individuals health or safety may be at risk as a direct result of the crime. This Request for Relocation Assistance must be completed prior to any expenses being covered. You are encouraged to fill this out with an advocate and refer to this safety planning tool to assist with sustainability and long term options. Loss of Income If you were unable to work as the direct result of the crime that occurred there may be assistance. Please provide additional information. Your employer will be contacted for wage and date information, however no details of your case will be shared . If an individual with dependents was the victim of a homicide, limited assistance may be available. Property Replacement If essential items were taken by law enforcement as evidence due to the crime they may be eligible for compensation. Use this form to identify what was taken and approximate value. When possible please provide examples or receipts. Note: VCCB does not generally cover property loss or damage, these are limited exceptions. Rental Assistance Request for Rental Assistance must be filled out along with documentation, such as a copy of your lease to provide short term rental assistance to stabilize housing following a violent crime. Note: this is limited to no more than two months of assistance.