Alaska’s Violent Crimes Compensation Board (VCCB) - Benefits at a Glance
Expense
Medical

Including but not limited to hospital services,
physician/dental charges, physical therapy, ambulance
fees, tests, x-rays, blood work, cultural and traditional
healing approaches, chiropractic care,
prescriptions/over-the-counter medications/supplies,
home health care, medical co-pays/deductibles,
alternative or holistic treatment, job training, childcare,
medical equipment, or devices needed or damaged
because of the crime that are essential to assist in
normal daily life functions.

Loss of Earnings

Up to two weeks of wages;
Up to one week if non-relative makes funeral/burial
arrangements.

Required Documentation
General Medical Expenses

Copies of itemized medical bills and paid receipts in the claimant’s name
showing the name, address, and telephone number of the service provider,
the date of the service, type of service provided, and the amount charged
for each service; If covered by insurance, copies of insurance explanation of
benefit (EOB) statements; Confirmation that the applicant is not eligible for
Medicaid benefits is required; Reimbursement of Prescription Medications:
A copy of the actual prescription (or pharmacy printout) showing victim’s
name, the type of medication, the date prescribed, and the physician’s
name.

If Claimant is an Employee

Copy of two (2) pay stubs for period immediately prior to crime; Violent
Crimes Compensation Board (VCCB) will request the employer complete an
Employer Verification for Lost Wages Form; VCCB will request a Licensed
Physician or Mental Health Care Provider complete a Physician/Therapist
Certification for Loss Wages Form if the claimant is requesting more than
two weeks.

If Claimant is Self-Employed

Relocation

Housing application fee, rental and/or pet deposit, truck
rental, moving company, storage, motel/hotel, rent,
transportation costs, P.O. box rental, utility deposit
and/or connection fee for electric, gas, or water.
Note: Need to relocate must be for safety and/or health
reasons.

Up to $40,000

Chiropractic care: 20 visits within 12 months of crime. Up to $3,500.
Cultural and traditional healing approaches: Up to $3,000.
Alternative therapy: Up to 3 sessions without certification from a
physician or licensed mental health care provider.
Job retraining: Up to $1,500.

Up to $10,000

Compensation is reimbursed at a rate of 85% of gross pay. VCCB
awards are non-taxable.
VCCB may offset any paid leave (donated, sick, personal, or annual).
May offset paid Bereavement/Funeral leave.
Up to two-weeks without a note from a physician or mental health
care provider.

Completed Self-Employment Verification for Lost Wages Form; One year of
federal income tax returns including the Schedule C form. If the victim or
applicant did not file a return, quarterly deposits, 1099s or other
documentation required. Verification of lawful employment is necessary.
Completed Relocation Plan;

On a case-by-case basis, with medical justification, a longer period
may be considered.

Copy of lease for new rental, listing claimant as the lessee; Copy of itemized
bills and paid receipts for relocation in the claimant’s name showing the
name, address, and telephone number of the service provider, the date of
the service, type of service provided, and the amount charged for each
service;

Rent: Up to $4,000 or two months, whichever is less.

Completed Rental Verification Form completed by landlord or property
manager OR proof of payment (receipts from the landlord).

Funeral and Burial

Casket/urn or similar vessel, funeral services, burial vault,
cremation costs, grave marker, flowers, transportation of
body, memorial meal, and burial clothing; In addition, for
Alaska Native or other culturally appropriate burial
ceremonies: food baskets and other expenses related to
the traditional giveaway or gifting practices of tribe; and
gifts to individuals for the performance of service (i.e.,
quilts, cooking, etc.).

Payment Maximums

Up to $7,500 (per crime/per household)
PO box rental: Up to one year.

Motel/Hotel: Up to 5 days (up to $225 per night, including tax and
fees).
Licensed/professional moving company fees: Up to $2,500.
Note: If victim is unable to show sufficient income to maintain rent,
reimbursement may not exceed $4,000.

Up to $10,000
Copy of signed funeral contract (Statement of Funeral Goods and Services
will suffice) between the funeral home and the claimant; Copies of itemized
funeral and/or burial bills and/or memorial expenses in the claimant’s name
showing the name, address, and telephone number of the service provider,
the date of the service, type of service provided, and the amount charged
for each service; Copies of any paid receipts; Copy of death certificate or
other verification indicating homicide (i.e. police report).

Last revised July 2026
This guide is not intended to supplement, expand or contradict the applicable statutes and regulations.

For emergency award consideration, up to $10,000 may be available
should two applications be submitted ($5,000 each).
Memorial meal/food: Up to $1,500.
Alaska Native or other culturally appropriate burial ceremonies as
described: Up to $1,500.

Expense
Loss of Support

Generally provided to victim’s minor children. VCCB may
compensate lost support for a relative who was
financially dependent on the victim at the time of the
death.

Required Documentation
Minor Dependent(s)

Copy of child’s birth certificate, adoption papers and/or guardianship
documents; Copy of Social Security survivor benefit award letter or denial;
Proof of a child’s dependence on the victim at the time of death (e.g., copy
of victim’s federal income tax return, child support order).

Adult Dependent
Proof of dependence on the victim at the time of death (e.g., copy of victim’s
federal income tax return and W-2’s or alimony/spousal order).

Mental Health Therapy

Counseling, co-pays, deductibles, cultural and traditional
healing approaches, alternative therapy, such as
acupuncture, massage therapy, equine and art therapies,
and purchase/training of an emotional support animal
(pre-authorization required by VCCB prior to purchase).

Copies of itemized counseling bills and paid receipts in the claimant’s name
showing the name, address, and telephone number of the service provider,
the date of the service, type of service provided, and the amount charged
for each service; Copies of insurance EOB statements, if applicable;
Treatment plan from mental health provider.
If Requesting Additional Therapy Above Initial Award
Additional Counseling Request Form completed by the claimant’s mental
health provider.
Emotional support animal – Contact VCCB for required documentation.

Payment Maximums
Up to $40,000 and up to $80,000 if there are multiple
dependents that were financially dependent on the
victim at the time of the death.
Documentation must clearly demonstrate proof of maintenance of an
eligible dependent and establishment of the deceased wage earnings.
In certain circumstances, childcare may be considered.

Counseling – Direct Victims: Initial maximum award is
24 sessions.
Secondary Victims: initial maximum 12 sessions
VCCB will pay first evaluation and intake session in full.
Payment after first session: $200/session for services provided by a
licensed mental health provider; $135/hour for services provided by a
mental health provider supervised by a licensed mental health
provider; $250/hour for services provided by a clinical psychologist;
Psychiatrist charges are paid at 100%;
(Additional therapy considered on a case-by-case basis with
Treatment plan.)
Alternative therapy: Up to 3 sessions without certification from a
physician or licensed mental health care provider;

Security Measures

Security system purchase, installation, and monitoring;
replacement, repair, or purchase and installation related
to securing doors, windows and locks; and damaged or
destroyed cell phone.

Crime Scene Clean-up

Costs to remove, or attempt to remove, blood, dirt,
stains or other debris caused by the crime or the
investigative processing of the crime scene in a private
residence.

Items Taken as Evidence

Replacement of bedding and/or clothing, or other
essential items taken by law enforcement for evidence.

Copies of itemized bills and paid receipts in the claimant’s name showing the
name, address and telephone number of the service provider, the date of
the service, type of service provided, and the amount charged for each
service; The police report will be key to verify damage to homes and cell
phones that are destroyed, damaged, or taken as evidence.

Copies of itemized bills and paid receipts in the claimant’s name showing the
name, address, and telephone number of the service provider, the date of
the service, type of service provided, and the amount charged for each
service.

Emotional support animal: Up to $2,000 if approved by VCCB prior to
purchase.

Security system and monitoring: Up to $1,500.

Securing doors, windows, and locks: Up to $4,000.
Destroyed/damaged cell phone: Up to $1,000.
Up to $7,000

The police report will be key to verify damage to homes requiring clean-up.
Copy of the evidence receipt provided by the law enforcement agency; If
available, receipts should be provided. If receipts are not available, a
description of the item and brand name, if known. Items must be
listed/mentioned in police report.

Last revised July 2026
This guide is not intended to supplement, expand or contradict the applicable statutes and regulations.

Up to $1,500

Cell phone: Up to $1,000 (not included in $1500 max – see security).

Transportation

Airfare, public transportation, car rental, mileage,
lodging, tolls, parking, and in some cases meal
subsistence.

Childcare

Childcare expenses outside of pre-existing needs if
childcare is directly related to the incident, need is
directly related to the need to attend medical, counseling
or criminal justice proceedings or the homicide victim
was providing childcare services at time of death.

Rent

Temporary assistance to help stabilize housing when a
qualifying crime causes a disruption to the applicants
ability to meet rental obligations.

Completed Request for Transportation Expenses Form; Copies of bills or
documentation to support each travel date (medical, counseling, funeral,
court); Copies of itemized travel expenses and paid receipts in the claimant’s
name showing the name, address, and telephone number of the service
provider, the date of the service, type of service provided, and the amount
charged for each service.

Up to $5,000 per major event (funeral, trial, etc.)

Reimbursements will be provided based on receipts provided.

Up to $2,000*

In cases where victim was primary childcare provider at time of death, proof
of maintenance may include child’s birth certificate or guardianship, proof of
paternity, Social Security statement, survivor pension plan, federal income
tax return, or other documentation that may be provided for proof of
maintenance. The VCCB will consider requests on a case-by-case basis
depending on documentation provided and reasonableness.
Rental request form provided by VCCB – demonstrating financial need
related to crime.
Proof of current rental obligation (lease agreement)

Car rental: Up to $50 per day.
Mileage: Reimbursed at federal standard rate (over 50 miles).

Lodging – Hotel/Motel: Up to $225 per night (including tax and fees).
Meal subsistence: Up to $60 per day if travel is 50 miles or more (one
way) from eligible person’s home.
Per-Diem limit of up to $200 per day per family.

*In cases of homicide where victim was childcare provider at the time
of death, VCCB may consider requests for childcare services, not to
exceed $20,000, until the child reaches primary school age.

Up to $4,000 or 2 months (whichever is less)

Payments will be made directly to the landlord or property
management company.

Note: The total compensation that may be awarded as a result of a crime may not exceed $40,000 with the exception of claims for loss of support.

Last revised July 2026
This guide is not intended to supplement, expand or contradict the applicable statutes and regulations.

