Alaska Violent Crimes Compensation Board Quick Exit Home adba1f66_admin November 27, 2023 July 13, 2026 The Violent Crimes Compensation Board (VCCB) helps with financial expenses that directly result from violent crime. While compensation does not make victims of violence whole, it is intended to lessen the burden and provide hope for healing. Recovering from a violent crime in Alaska? ELIGIBILITY APPLICATION There is NOT a 24-hour waiting period to file a missing persons report. As soon as a person is suspected missing, call your local law enforcement, the Troopers or VPSO and file a missing persons report. Report missing persons immediately CONTACT VSPO MISSING PERSONS – MMIP UPCOMING MEETINGS/TRAINING This calendar includes upcoming Violent Crimes Compensation Board meetings and professional training offered by the Victim Assistance and Forensic Science Division . View Schedule 21 October 2026 VCCB – Board Meeting 5:30 pm – 7:30 pm Public Session: 5:30–6:00 pm; Executive Session: 6:00 pm; Meeting ends at 7:30 pm. Public comments only 5:30–6:00. Email vccb@alaska.gov Find out more FOR VICTIMS Getting Started This website has been designed to help you navigate available services with ease. From understanding your rights to connecting with local service providers, this is a starting point for accessing vital resources to aid in your journey towards healing and justice. OUR MISSION VICTIM NOTIFICATION Crime victims have the right to be notified about the crime, court proceedings, sentence, and release dates during the criminal justice process. FIND A PROVIDER Find providers tailored to your specific needs and location based on the type of crime. Take the first step towards recovery by connecting with the right resources THE PROCESS Submit application for eligibility assessment, review, & potential funding, with emergency award option available for urgent assistance. YOUR RIGHTS Understand your rights, including some automatic and others triggered upon request, ensuring a thorough grasp of the justice process. REQUEST AID Apply for Compensation Our step-by-step tools are intended to aid in navigating the application process and serve as a guide through each stage. We are here to provide clarity and assistance along the way. How What When Which Crimes are Compensable? How to apply Fill out an application online , or fill out the PDF and send it in by mail, secure email or fax. A paralegal will follow up if additional information is required. Call our office or contact your local victim service agency for assistance completing the application. APPLY HERE What expenses can VCCB help pay? VCCB may help for crime related expenses such as: Medical and dental treatment Mental health services Lost wages Funeral expenses Security Relocation Crime scene clean up In homicide cases, loss of support for dependents Trial attendance costs or other transportation needs Applicants may be eligible for different types of compensation and varying amounts. Eligibility is determined by statute and established policies and reviewed on a case-to-case bases. APPLY HERE When to request compensation? Do not wait. Even if you do not know all related expenses, it is important to open an application within two years of when the crime occurred. If the crime occurred more than two years ago, please provide an explanation as to why there was a delay in requesting financial assistance. APPLY HERE Which crimes are compensable? The following crimes are compensable: Murder Manslaughter Criminally negligent homicide Assault Kidnapping Sexual assault Sexual abuse of a minor Robbery Threats to do bodily harm Driving under the influence Arson in the 1st degree (personal injury only) Federal crimes e.g. trafficking Sex trafficking Human trafficking Unlawful exploitation of a minor Please note, a protective or restraining order is a civil matter and will not, by itself, establish you as being eligible for this program. However, an award can be made whether or not a person is prosecuted or convicted of one of the crimes listed. Contributory conduct Board awards are discretionary.  By statute, the Board shall consider all relevant circumstances under which the crime occurred.  This may include provocation by the victim, consent or any other behavior of the victim that directly or indirectly contributed to the victim’s injury or death. Note:  this is subject to the “reasonable person “test – i.e. a reasonable person would or should have known that his or her behavior could lead to their victimization. For example, the Board may deny a claim where the evidence shows that the crime and victimization was directly linked to the manufacture, selling or purchase of illegal drugs. RECIPIENTS Who benefits from compensation? Facing the aftermath of a violent crime in Alaska can be daunting. If you’ve incurred expenses due to such incidents, whether medical, counseling, or related costs, VCCB offers limited financial relief to eligible individuals. Discover support and assistance as you work towards healing and rebuilding. Expenses as a 
Direct Result of a Violent Crime in Alaska You may 
be eligible for assistance. Violent Crime 
has Affected You or Your Family VCCB may be able to assist with crime related expenses. Crime Related Expenses VCCB offers limited financial relief for crime related expenses. NEED ADDITIONAL HELP? Contact Us Have questions or need assistance? Connect with the Violent Crimes Compensation Board. Our team is here to help and guide you through the process of seeking support for crime-related expenses. Reach out today, and let us assist you on the path to recovery. Physical & Mailing Address Violent Crimes Compensation Board State of Alaska Department of Public Safety 4300 Boniface Pkwy. Anchorage, AK 99504 Phone Number(s) VCCB Phone: (907) 465-3040 Toll Free: (800) 764-3040 VCCB Fax: (907) 465-2379 DPS Phone: (907) 269-5511