Criminal Injuries Compensation Board - Governor’s Office of Crime Prevention and Policy Skip to Main Content Menu Maryland.gov Home Facebook Twitter Social Media Directory Victim Information & Notification Everyday (VINE) VINE Protective Order (VPO) Victims’ Rights Compliance Initiative Criminal Injuries Compensation Board Sexual Assault Reimbursement Unit Program for Preventing Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Infection for Rape Victims Victims’ Brochures & Forms Maryland State Board of Victim Services National Crime Victims’ Rights Week History of the Board Board Membership Board Meetings Schedule Board Meeting Minutes Governor’s Family Violence Council Abuse Intervention Program (AIP) Certification Council Membership Council Meetings Schedule Council Meeting Minutes Criminal Injuries Compensation Board Leer en Español . The Criminal Injuries Compensation Board is a remedial body designed to provide aid and assistance to victims of crime in Maryland. Our statutory authority shall be construed in all circumstances to remedy the harm to the victim and in favor of eligibility for the victim or claimant. Documents English Application for Crime Victim Compensation with instructions Resource Guide (pdf pamphlet) Español Solicitud de Compensación para Víctimas de Crimen con instrucciones Guía de Recursos (folleto en pdf) Services Claims examination Efficient processing of claims Emergency and supplemental awards Interpretation services Victim advocacy Compassionate listening Application assistance Status updates Resource referrals Collaboration between involved parties Hearing notification and accompaniment Community education and outreach Frequently asked questions for victims Who is eligible for compensation? Person who suffers physical injury as a result of a crime or delinquent act. Surviving spouse or child of a homicide victim. Person who assumed responsibility for the funeral expenses of a homicide victim. Person who was dependent on the homicide victim for principal support. A child or spouse of a victim of homicide. A parent, child, or spouse of an individual who is incarcerated for abuse as defined in § 4-501 of the Family Law Article and who, prior to incarceration resided with the parent, child, or spouse; and provided financial support to the parent, child, or spouse. Person who suffers from psychological injury as the result of certain offenses. What is reimbursable? Medical expenses related to physical injury; Expenses for psychological injury incurred as the result of certain offenses; Loss of earnings which are directly related to the victim’s inability to work following the crime; Bereavement leave up to 2 weeks or $2,000; Total or partial, permanent or temporary, disability; Funeral expense in the case of a homicide; Loss of support or dependency when a homicide victim was providing support to the claimant; Up to 30 days in lost wages for a parent or guardian caring for a child injured by crime; and Other expenses as approved by the Criminal Injuries Compensation Board. What must a victim do to qualify for compensation? Unless good cause is shown, report the crime to appropriate authorities within 48 hours of the crime occurring; and Have incurred at least $100 in reimbursable expenses or lost wages. What makes a victim ineligible for compensation? Substantial evidence suggests the victim caused, provoked or contributed to the crime that caused the injury; and Unless good cause is shown, failing to cooperate with authorities law enforcement. Contact Us Employment Statewide Privacy Policy GOCPP Privacy Notice Accessibility Executive Director Dorothy Lennig Governor’s Office of Crime Prevention and
          Policy Main Office: 100 Community Place, Crownsville, MD 21032 Victim
            Services - Criminal Injuries Compensation Board (CICB): 6776 Reisterstown Rd, Suite 209 Baltimore, MD 21215 410-697-9338 Facebook Twitter MD Social Media Directory Using The Handle with Care Dashboard Print Hover Pausing over a data point on a chart may reveal additional breakdowns for that data point. Click All figures in the dashboard are interactive with one another, and once clicked on, will cross-filter with other measures. When a data point is selected, its color will be darker, and other data points will appear faded. Double-click Selecting the same section or item twice will clear your selection and return the data to an overall perspective. Filters Selecting a filter will cross-filter across the entire dashboard. This format allows for a deeper understanding of trends by the filter selected.  You can also select multiple filters for a further breakdown of data elements. You can also select multiple options within a filter. × About The Handle with Care Dashboard Print This dashboard maps statewide and county-by-county, the number of Handle with Care notices sent to schools as well as the rate per 1,000 students. Also, the number of students affected, mental health services provided and number of participating schools. That data can be analyzed further by month and year. Data Sources Data reflected in this dashboard is collected from schools, law enforcement agencies and other public safety agencies participating in the Handle with Care initiative. What is Microsoft Power BI? Power BI is a business analytics service by Microsoft. It aims to provide interactive visualizations and business intelligence capabilities with an interface simple enough for end users to create their own reports and dashboards ×