Laws - Statute Text Legislative Services | Legislative Audits MyMGA Sign In Register Forgot Password Accessibility Tools Hide Images Default Contrast Reset All Settings Request Accessibility Services Accessibility Feedback Menu MEMBERS Find My Representatives Senate House Publications Related Links About COMMITTEES Charts Senate House Other Publications Related Links About MEETINGS Day(s) Week Month Update Report Publications About LEGISLATION Charts Senate House Publications About BUDGET Charts Analyses Legislation Bond Initiatives Publications Related Links About LAWS Statutes Counties Municipalities Publications Related Links About FLOOR ACTIONS Status Agendas Senate Index House Index Follow Both Chambers Publications About REDISTRICTING Congressional Legislative SEARCH Legislation Full Text Publications Media Menu MEMBERS Find My Representatives Senate House Publications Related Links About COMMITTEES Senate House Other Publications Related Links About MEETINGS Day(s) Update Report Publications About LEGISLATION Senate House Publications About BUDGET Analyses Legislation Bond Initiatives Publications Related Links About LAWS Statutes Counties Municipalities Publications Related Links About FLOOR ACTIONS Status Agendas Senate Index House Index Publications About REDISTRICTING Congressional Legislative SEARCH Legislation Full Text Publications Media Track Witness Signup FAQ Change Password Cancel Account Senate House Other About Statutes Counties Municipalities Publications Related Links About Statutes Text Article - Criminal Procedure Previous Next §11–808. (a)    (1)    Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the following persons are eligible for awards in the manner provided under this subtitle: (i)    a victim; (ii)    a dependent of a victim who died as a direct result of: 1.    a crime or delinquent act; 2.    trying to prevent a crime or delinquent act or an attempted crime or delinquent act from occurring in the victim’s presence or trying to apprehend a person who had committed a crime or delinquent act in the victim’s presence; or 3.    helping a law enforcement officer perform the officer’s duties or helping a member of a fire department or an agency that provides emergency medical services who is obstructed from performing the member’s duties; (iii)    any person who paid or assumed responsibility for the funeral expenses of a victim who died as a direct result of: 1.    a crime or delinquent act; 2.    trying to prevent a crime or delinquent act or an attempted crime or delinquent act from occurring in the victim’s presence or trying to apprehend a person who had committed a crime or delinquent act in the victim’s presence; or 3.    helping a law enforcement officer perform the officer’s duties or helping a member of a fire department or an agency that provides emergency medical services who is obstructed from performing the member’s duties; and (iv)    1.    a parent, child, domestic partner, dependent minor, adult under legal guardianship, or spouse of a victim who resides with the victim; or 2.    a parent, child, domestic partner, dependent minor, adult under legal guardianship, or spouse of an individual who is incarcerated for abuse as defined in § 4–501 of the Family Law Article and who, prior to incarceration: A.    resided with the parent, child, domestic partner, dependent minor, adult under their legal guardianship, or spouse; and B.    provided financial support to the parent, child, domestic partner, dependent minor, adult under the individual’s legal guardianship, or spouse. (2)    A person who commits the crime or delinquent act that is the basis of a claim, or an accomplice of the person, is not eligible to receive an award with respect to the claim. (b)    A resident of the State is eligible for an award under this subtitle if the resident becomes a victim in another state other than this State that: (1)    does not operate a criminal injuries compensation program; (2)    operates a criminal injuries compensation program for which the victim is ineligible; or (3)    operates a criminal injuries compensation program for which money has not been appropriated or made available. (c)    (1)    A person eligible to receive an award under subsection (a) or (b) of this section may file a claim under this subtitle. (2)    If a person eligible to receive an award is under 18 years of age, the person’s parent or guardian may file a claim under this subtitle. (3)    If a person eligible to receive an award is mentally incompetent, the person’s guardian or other person authorized to administer the person’s estate may file the claim on the person’s behalf. Previous Next Validation Please fix the following: OK Success Okay Click to return on the top page Alert Okay