Sexual Assault Reimbursement Unit - Governor’s Office of Crime Prevention and Policy Skip to Main Content Menu Maryland.gov Home Facebook Twitter Social Media Directory Victim Information & Notification Everyday (VINE) VINE Protective Order (VPO) Victims’ Rights Compliance Initiative Criminal Injuries Compensation Board Sexual Assault Reimbursement Unit Program for Preventing Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Infection for Rape Victims Victims’ Brochures & Forms Maryland State Board of Victim Services National Crime Victims’ Rights Week History of the Board Board Membership Board Meetings Schedule Board Meeting Minutes Governor’s Family Violence Council Abuse Intervention Program (AIP) Certification Council Membership Council Meetings Schedule Council Meeting Minutes Sexual Assault Reimbursement Unit Program Overview​ The Sexual Assault Reimbursement Unit, operating under the Code of Maryland Regulations 10.12.02, Rape and Sexual Offenses – Physician and Hospital Charges (select 12 Adult Health, subtitle 12.02 Rape and Sexual Offenses-Physician and Hospital Charges, was created to provide reimbursement for the physical examination, collection of evidence, and emergency treatment of individuals for injuries resulting from alleged rape, sexual assault, or child sexual abuse. The Sexual Assault Reimbursement Unit aims to prevent individuals and their families from re-victimization by easing the reimbursement process associated with medical-forensic claims processing. The Sexual Assault Reimbursement Unit allows victims and their families to focus on the important task of healing. October 23, 2024: Please see below the updated reimbursement forms for sexual assault forensic examinations (SAFEs) and nPEP (HIV prophylaxis) medication. To receive reimbursement from the Sexual Assault Reimbursement Unit (SARU) for SAFEs, nPEP treatment, and related follow-up care, programs must begin utilizing these forms by January 1, 2025. The SARU will continue to accept older forms through December 31, 2024. Below, you will also find guidance on reimbursements for Drug-Facilitated Sexual Assault toxicology testing. Effective January 1, 2025, hospitals submitting claims that do not meet the requirements outlined in this document may not receive reimbursement if the SARU does not receive proper documentation. For any additional information, questions, or inquiries, please contact the SARU at saru.claims@maryland.gov . Information about the Program for Preventing Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Infection for Rape Victims Guides and Brochures Patient Guide to nPEP (English) Patient Guide to nPEP (Spanish) SARU Q&A Session – July 2, 2025 Reimbursement Forms SARU SAFE Reimbursement Form Maryland Sexual Assault Forensic Exam and nPEP Reimbursement Guidance Document Drug-Facilitated Sexual Assault Toxicology Testing Guidance Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) 1) What is a forensic medical examination? The term “forensic medical exam” means an examination provided to a sexual assault victim by medical personnel trained to gather evidence of a sexual assault in a manner suitable for use in a court of law. 2) Who is eligible for reimbursement? Reimbursements are made directly to physicians, hospitals, pharmacies, and laboratories on behalf of victims of rape, sexual assault, and child sexual abuse for medical treatment and evidence collection. 3) What are the requirements for reimbursement? Regulations outline the following requirements for reimbursement as submitted by hospitals and service providers: A police complaint number, for victims who choose to report to police, must be documented.  For victims who do not wish to report to police, a property held number, Jane Doe number, CPS/CHESSIE number or similar case identifier for evidence collection must be documented; If you are unable to obtain a case number or case identifier from law enforcement, the exam should still be completed per the victim’s request and please write “not provided but requested” on the line for the police case identifier. All necessary documentation must be submitted, including: Signed SARU SAFE Reimbursement Form (Formerly the Maryland Department of Health’s Form #2923), Medical Examination and Report of Alleged Sexual Assault OR Form #4456, Confidential Report of Alleged Child Sexual Assault; Signed by a Physician and Forensic Nurse Examiner; Physician Assistants and Nurse Practitioners are able to sign in place of the ED provider, if necessary Payment sheet (CMS Form #1450; CMS Form #1500 or self-designed payment form) with vendor name, address, federal tax identification number, patient’s name, patient date of birth,  date of service, and amount due; and Itemized bill including documentation of laboratory/diagnostic tests and medications ordered. Claims must be submitted within 90 days from the date of service. 4) What is the Level of Reimbursement? Physicians The Sexual Assault Reimbursment Unit shall pay a physician the physician’s usual and customary fee not to exceed $80 for the examination and collection of evidence for victims of alleged rape or sexual offense. The Sexual Assault Reimbursement Unit shall pay a physician the physician’s usual and customary fee or the customary fee of those individuals under the physician’s supervision, qualified to participate in the gathering of information and evidence through an initial assessment as defined under Regulation .02B of this chapter, not to exceed $80 per hour for up to 5 hours for victims of alleged child sexual abuse. Hospitals The Unit shall pay the established rate as determined by the Health Services Cost Review Commission for the use of the emergency room or outpatient clinic and the daily in hospital rate. Laboratories The Unit shall pay the established rate as determined by the Health Services Cost Review Commission for laboratory tests necessary to establish and gather information and evidence of the crime, and for screening of the victim for pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections. Pharmacies The Unit shall pay the established rate as determined by the Health Services Cost Review Commission as reimbursement to pharmacies for the disbursement of HIV prophlaxis medication to victims of sexual assault. 5) What services are covered? Emergency room treatment, inhospital treatment, and followup medical testing obtained within 90 days of the initial examination for injuries sustained as a result of the alleged rape or sexual assault; Screening for pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections; Diagnostic tests directly associated with the assault; Laboratory tests necessary to establish and gather information and evidence of the crime; Toxicology screening; Postcoital medications; Prophylactic medications for sexually transmitted infections and tetanus; Pain and antiemetic medications; Any medication directly related to the assault. 6) The patient does not wish to file a police report. Is the forensic medical examination covered? Yes, any victim of sexual assault or rape is entitled to a forensic medical examination regardless of their decision to report sexual assault to police. All forensic examinations (exams with a property held number or similar case identifier for evidence) are reimbursable for the hospital that performs the examination. 7) Is HIV testing and treatment a covered service? The Unit is administering the Pilot Program for Preventing Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Infection for Rape Victims , established in Chapter 431 of 2019. Under this program, a victim of an alleged rape or sexual offense, or a victim of alleged child sexual abuse, may be eligible to receive a full course of non-occupational post-exposure prophylaxis (nPEP) treatment and follow-up care for the prevention of HIV infection. 8) When completing documentation for a child victim, which form do I use? For either hospital or physician services, either SARU SAFE Reimbursement Form (formerly Form #2923) or Form #4456 may be used for a child under the age of 18. However, when requesting reimbursement for physician services, the Form #4456 must be completed in full. 9) If the patient was assaulted in another state but presents to a facility in the state of Maryland, are the services covered? If a victim is sexually assaulted outside of Maryland, the SARU will reimburse for medical care provided within the state of Maryland, provided that all other criteria for reimbursement are met. Medical care provided outside of the State of Maryland will not be reimbursed, as medical providers must be licensed to practice in the State of Maryland to receive reimbursement. 10) The patient’s signature was not obtained on the SARU SAFE Reimbursement Form (Formerly Form #2923) or the nPEP Reimbursement Form. May the facility still be reimbursed? It is critical that the proper protocol is followed and a patient signature is obtained as a general practice.  As a very rare exception, the SARU will accept a SAFE nurse’s signature along with that of a witness. It is critical that the proper protocol is followed and a patient signature is obtained as a general practice. 11) The victim was injured during the assault. Is related care covered? Any injury directly associated with the assault may be considered for reimbursement. For example, if the patient sustained a fracture as a result of the assault, the Unit would provide reimbursement for the radiology services. However, the Unit does not cover testing or treatment for preexisting conditions. 12) The patient complains of mental health issues related to the assault. Are mental health services a covered expense? As outlined in Maryland COMAR 10.12.02 only medical and forensic services are eligible for reimbursement through the reimbursement. 13) Are electronic physician signatures allowed? Yes. 14) How can I contact the SARU if I have any billing questions? For questions, please contact the SARU by email at saru.claims@maryland.gov . Contact Us Employment Statewide Privacy Policy GOCPP Privacy Notice Accessibility Executive Director Dorothy Lennig Governor’s Office of Crime Prevention and
          Policy Main Office: 100 Community Place, Crownsville, MD 21032 Victim
            Services - Criminal Injuries Compensation Board (CICB): 6776 Reisterstown Rd, Suite 209 Baltimore, MD 21215 410-697-9338 Facebook Twitter MD Social Media Directory Using The Handle with Care Dashboard Print Hover Pausing over a data point on a chart may reveal additional breakdowns for that data point. Click All figures in the dashboard are interactive with one another, and once clicked on, will cross-filter with other measures. When a data point is selected, its color will be darker, and other data points will appear faded. Double-click Selecting the same section or item twice will clear your selection and return the data to an overall perspective. Filters Selecting a filter will cross-filter across the entire dashboard. This format allows for a deeper understanding of trends by the filter selected.  You can also select multiple filters for a further breakdown of data elements. You can also select multiple options within a filter. × About The Handle with Care Dashboard Print This dashboard maps statewide and county-by-county, the number of Handle with Care notices sent to schools as well as the rate per 1,000 students. Also, the number of students affected, mental health services provided and number of participating schools. That data can be analyzed further by month and year. Data Sources Data reflected in this dashboard is collected from schools, law enforcement agencies and other public safety agencies participating in the Handle with Care initiative. What is Microsoft Power BI? Power BI is a business analytics service by Microsoft. It aims to provide interactive visualizations and business intelligence capabilities with an interface simple enough for end users to create their own reports and dashboards ×