Section 72-1026 – Idaho State Legislature Senate Senate Leadership Senate Membership Senate Reading Calendars Senate Standing Committees Senate/Joint Rules Senate Staff Senate Page Program Session Job Opportunities Legislative Housing House House Leadership House Membership House Reading Calendars House Standing Committees House/Joint Rules House Staff House Page Program Session Job Opportunities Legislative Housing Committees Senate Standing Committees House Standing Committees Joint Standing Committees Interim/Special Committees Legislative Compensation Legislative Council Testiying Before Legislative Committees Legislators Senate Membership House Membership Who’s My Legislator? Contacting Legislators Laws/Rules Idaho Statutes Idaho Constitution Idaho Session Laws Administrative Rules Senate Rules House Rules Joint Senate and House Rules Legislative Sessions Live Audio/Video Streaming Home Idaho Laws & Rules Idaho Statutes Title 72 Chapter 10 Section 72-1026 Print Friendly Idaho Statutes Idaho Statutes are updated to the website July 1 following the legislative session. pecnv.out TITLE 72 WORKER’S COMPENSATION AND RELATED LAWS — INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION CHAPTER 10 CRIME VICTIMS COMPENSATION 72-1026. payments to medical providers. (1) The commission may adopt a fee schedule to determine the allowable payments to be made to medical providers under this chapter, including but not limited to, the fee schedule the commission has adopted to determine the allowable payments to be made to medical providers under the Idaho worker’s compensation law. (2)  A medical provider who accepts the full allowable payment from the commission under this chapter for medical services provided to a victim or claimant shall be deemed to have agreed to accept those payments as payment in full for those medical services. Except as provided in subsection (3) herein, a medical provider who has received payment from the commission for medical services provided to a victim or claimant under this chapter may not attempt to collect any further payment from the victim or the claimant for those same services. (3)  In the event the commission, due to a lack of available funds or some other cause, is unable to pay the full allowable payment to a medical provider for medical services provided to a victim or claimant under the provisions of this chapter, the medical provider may collect the unpaid balance for those services from the victim or claimant, but in no event shall the total amount collected by the provider from the commission and the victim or claimant exceed the full allowable payment the provider would have received from the commission under the provisions of this chapter. History: [72-1026, added 2010, ch. 136, sec. 1, p. 290.] How current is this law?