Section 19-5703 – Idaho State Legislature Senate Senate Leadership Senate Membership Senate Reading Calendars Senate Standing Committees Senate/Joint Rules Senate Staff Senate Page Program Session Job Opportunities Legislative Housing House House Leadership House Membership House Reading Calendars House Standing Committees House/Joint Rules House Staff House Page Program Session Job Opportunities Legislative Housing Committees Senate Standing Committees House Standing Committees Joint Standing Committees Interim/Special Committees Legislative Compensation Legislative Council Testiying Before Legislative Committees Legislators Senate Membership House Membership Who’s My Legislator? Contacting Legislators Laws/Rules Idaho Statutes Idaho Constitution Idaho Session Laws Administrative Rules Senate Rules House Rules Joint Senate and House Rules Legislative Sessions Live Audio/Video Streaming Home Idaho Laws & Rules Idaho Statutes Title 19 Chapter 57 Section 19-5703 Print Friendly Idaho Statutes Idaho Statutes are updated to the website July 1 following the legislative session. pecnv.out TITLE 19 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE CHAPTER 57 ADDRESS CONFIDENTIALITY FOR VICTIMS OF VIOLENCE 19-5703. Address confidentiality program — Application — Certification. [effective until January 1, 2027] (1) An adult person, a parent or a guardian acting on behalf of a minor, or a guardian appointed pursuant to section 15-5-304 , Idaho Code, acting on behalf of an incapacitated person, may apply to the secretary of state to have an address designated by the secretary of state serve as the person’s address or the address of the minor or incapacitated person. The secretary of state shall approve an application if it is filed in the manner and on the form prescribed by the secretary of state and if it contains: (a)  A sworn statement by the applicant that the applicant has good reason to believe: (i)   That the applicant, or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made, is a victim of domestic violence, stalking, rape or malicious harassment, or any other crime listed in section 19-5701 , Idaho Code; and (ii)  That the applicant fears for his or her safety or his or her children’s safety, or the safety of the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made; (b)  A designation of the secretary of state as agent for purposes of service of process and for the purpose of receipt of mail; (c)  The mailing address where the applicant can be contacted by the secretary of state, and the telephone number or numbers where the applicant can be called by the secretary of state; and (d)  The address or addresses that the applicant requests not be disclosed. (2)  If the applicant alleges that the basis for the application is that the applicant, or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made, is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault or human trafficking, the application must be accompanied by evidence including, but not limited to, any of the following: (a)  Police, court, or other government agency records or files; (b)  Documentation from a domestic violence or sexual assault program or facility if the person is alleged to be a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault or human trafficking; (c)  Documentation from a legal, clerical, medical or other professional from whom the applicant or person on whose behalf the application is made has sought assistance in dealing with the alleged domestic violence, sexual assault or human trafficking; and (d)  A certified copy of a no contact order or a temporary or permanent civil protection order. (3)  If the applicant alleges that the basis for the application is that the applicant, or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made, is a victim of stalking or malicious harassment, the application must be accompanied by evidence including, but not limited to, any of the following: (a)  Police, court or other government agency records or files; (b)  Documentation from a legal, clerical, medical or other professional from whom the applicant or person on whose behalf the application is made has sought assistance in dealing with the alleged stalking or malicious harassment; and (c)  A certified copy of a no contact order or a temporary or permanent civil protection order. (4)  Applications shall be filed with the office of the secretary of state. (5)  Upon filing a properly completed application, the secretary of state shall certify the applicant as a program participant. Applicants shall be certified for four (4) years following the date of filing unless the certification is withdrawn or invalidated before that date. The application may be renewed at the end of four (4) years. (6)  A person who falsely attests in an application that disclosure of the applicant’s address would endanger the applicant’s safety or the safety of the applicant’s children, or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made, or who knowingly provides false or incorrect information upon making an application, shall be punishable under section 18-5414 , Idaho Code, or other applicable statutes. 19-5703. Address confidentiality program — Application — Certification. [effective January 1, 2027] (1) An adult person, a parent or a guardian acting on behalf of a minor, or a guardian appointed pursuant to section 15-5-309 , Idaho Code, acting on behalf of an incapacitated person, may apply to the secretary of state to have an address designated by the secretary of state serve as the person’s address or the address of the minor or incapacitated person. The secretary of state shall approve an application if it is filed in the manner and on the form prescribed by the secretary of state and if it contains: (a)  A sworn statement by the applicant that the applicant has good reason to believe: (i)   That the applicant, or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made, is a victim of domestic violence, stalking, rape or malicious harassment, or any other crime listed in section 19-5701 , Idaho Code; and (ii)  That the applicant fears for his or her safety or his or her children’s safety, or the safety of the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made; (b)  A designation of the secretary of state as agent for purposes of service of process and for the purpose of receipt of mail; (c)  The mailing address where the applicant can be contacted by the secretary of state, and the telephone number or numbers where the applicant can be called by the secretary of state; and (d)  The address or addresses that the applicant requests not be disclosed. (2)  If the applicant alleges that the basis for the application is that the applicant, or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made, is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault or human trafficking, the application must be accompanied by evidence including, but not limited to, any of the following: (a)  Police, court, or other government agency records or files; (b)  Documentation from a domestic violence or sexual assault program or facility if the person is alleged to be a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault or human trafficking; (c)  Documentation from a legal, clerical, medical or other professional from whom the applicant or person on whose behalf the application is made has sought assistance in dealing with the alleged domestic violence, sexual assault or human trafficking; and (d)  A certified copy of a no contact order or a temporary or permanent civil protection order. (3)  If the applicant alleges that the basis for the application is that the applicant, or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made, is a victim of stalking or malicious harassment, the application must be accompanied by evidence including, but not limited to, any of the following: (a)  Police, court or other government agency records or files; (b)  Documentation from a legal, clerical, medical or other professional from whom the applicant or person on whose behalf the application is made has sought assistance in dealing with the alleged stalking or malicious harassment; and (c)  A certified copy of a no contact order or a temporary or permanent civil protection order. (4)  Applications shall be filed with the office of the secretary of state. (5)  Upon filing a properly completed application, the secretary of state shall certify the applicant as a program participant. Applicants shall be certified for four (4) years following the date of filing unless the certification is withdrawn or invalidated before that date. The application may be renewed at the end of four (4) years. (6)  A person who falsely attests in an application that disclosure of the applicant’s address would endanger the applicant’s safety or the safety of the applicant’s children, or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the application is made, or who knowingly provides false or incorrect information upon making an application, shall be punishable under section 18-5414 , Idaho Code, or other applicable statutes. History: [19-5703, added 2008, ch. 232, sec. 1, p. 704; am. 2018, ch. 112, sec. 3, p. 228; am. 2026, ch. 79, sec. 21, p. 413.] How current is this law?