Section 72-1016 – Idaho State Legislature Senate Senate Leadership Senate Membership Senate Reading Calendars Senate Standing Committees Senate/Joint Rules Senate Staff Senate Page Program Session Job Opportunities Legislative Housing House House Leadership House Membership House Reading Calendars House Standing Committees House/Joint Rules House Staff House Page Program Session Job Opportunities Legislative Housing Committees Senate Standing Committees House Standing Committees Joint Standing Committees Interim/Special Committees Legislative Compensation Legislative Council Testiying Before Legislative Committees Legislators Senate Membership House Membership Who’s My Legislator? Contacting Legislators Laws/Rules Idaho Statutes Idaho Constitution Idaho Session Laws Administrative Rules Senate Rules House Rules Joint Senate and House Rules Legislative Sessions Live Audio/Video Streaming Home Idaho Laws & Rules Idaho Statutes Title 72 Chapter 10 Section 72-1016 Print Friendly Idaho Statutes Idaho Statutes are updated to the website July 1 following the legislative session. pecnv.out TITLE 72 WORKER’S COMPENSATION AND RELATED LAWS — INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION CHAPTER 10 CRIME VICTIMS COMPENSATION 72-1016. Limitations on awards. (1) Compensation may not be awarded unless the claim is filed with the commission within one (1) year after the day the criminally injurious conduct occurred causing the injury or death upon which the claim is based. The time for filing a claim may be extended by the commission for good cause shown. (2)  Compensation may not be awarded to a claimant who is the offender or an accomplice of the offender or to any claimant if the award would unjustly benefit the offender or accomplice. (3)  Compensation may not be awarded unless the criminally injurious conduct resulting in injury or death was reported to a law enforcement officer within seventy-two (72) hours after its occurrence or the commission finds there was good cause for the failure to report within that time. (4)  In order to be entitled to benefits under this chapter, a claimant must fully cooperate with all law enforcement agencies and prosecuting attorneys in the apprehension and prosecution of the offender causing the criminally injurious conduct. The commission, upon finding that the claimant or victim has not fully cooperated with appropriate law enforcement agencies or prosecuting attorneys, may deny or reconsider and reduce an award of compensation. (5)  Subject to the limitations on payments for the costs of forensic and medical examinations of alleged victims of sexual assault described in section 72-1019 (2), Idaho Code, compensation otherwise payable to a claimant shall be reduced or denied to the extent the compensation benefits payable are or can be recouped from collateral sources. (6)  Persons serving a sentence of imprisonment or residing in any other public institution that provides for the maintenance of such persons are not entitled to the benefits of this chapter. (7)  (a) Compensation may be denied or reduced if the victim contributed to the infliction of death or injury with respect to which the claim is made. Any reduction in benefits under this paragraph shall be in proportion to what the commission finds to be the victim’s contribution to the infliction of death or injury. (b)  Compensation otherwise payable to a claimant shall be reduced by fifty percent (50%) if at the time the injury was incurred the claimant was engaged in a felony or was in violation of section 18-8004 or 67-7034 , Idaho Code, and compensation otherwise payable may be further reduced pursuant to regulation of the industrial commission if the claimant’s actions contributed to the injury. History: [72-1016, added 1986, ch. 337, sec. 1, p. 829; am. 1990, ch. 15, sec. 1, p. 25; am. 1993, ch. 278, sec. 2, p. 941; am. 2002, ch. 136, sec. 6, p. 377; am. 2018, ch. 249, sec. 1, p. 577.] How current is this law?