Section 72-1003 – Idaho State Legislature Senate Senate Leadership Senate Membership Senate Reading Calendars Senate Standing Committees Senate/Joint Rules Senate Staff Senate Page Program Session Job Opportunities Legislative Housing House House Leadership House Membership House Reading Calendars House Standing Committees House/Joint Rules House Staff House Page Program Session Job Opportunities Legislative Housing Committees Senate Standing Committees House Standing Committees Joint Standing Committees Interim/Special Committees Legislative Compensation Legislative Council Testiying Before Legislative Committees Legislators Senate Membership House Membership Who’s My Legislator? Contacting Legislators Laws/Rules Idaho Statutes Idaho Constitution Idaho Session Laws Administrative Rules Senate Rules House Rules Joint Senate and House Rules Legislative Sessions Live Audio/Video Streaming Home Idaho Laws & Rules Idaho Statutes Title 72 Chapter 10 Section 72-1003 Print Friendly Idaho Statutes Idaho Statutes are updated to the website July 1 following the legislative session. pecnv.out TITLE 72 WORKER’S COMPENSATION AND RELATED LAWS — INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION CHAPTER 10 CRIME VICTIMS COMPENSATION 72-1003. Definitions. As used in this chapter: (1)  "Claimant" means any of the following claiming compensation under this chapter: (a)  A victim; (b)  A dependent of a deceased victim; or (c)  An authorized person acting on behalf of any of them, including parent(s), legal guardian(s), and sibling(s), of a victim who is a minor. (2)  "Collateral source" means a source of benefits, other than welfare benefits, or advantages for economic loss otherwise compensable under this chapter which the claimant has received or which is readily available to him from: (a)  The offender; (b)  The government of the United States or any agency thereof, a state or any of its political subdivisions, or an instrumentality of two (2) or more states, unless the law providing for the benefits or advantages makes them excess or secondary to benefits under this chapter; (c)  Social security, medicare, and medicaid; (d)  Worker’s compensation; (e)  Wage continuation programs of any employer; (f)  Proceeds of a contract of insurance payable to the claimant for loss which was sustained because of the criminally injurious conduct; or (g)  A contract, including an insurance contract, providing hospital and other health care services or benefits for disability. Any such contract in this state may not provide that benefits under this chapter shall be a substitute for benefits under the contract or that the contract is a secondary source of benefits and benefits under this chapter are a primary source. (3)  "Commission" means the industrial commission. (4)  "Criminally injurious conduct" means intentional, knowing, or reckless conduct that: (a)  Occurs or is attempted in this state or occurs outside the state of Idaho against a resident of the state of Idaho and which occurred in a state which does not have a crime victims compensation program for which the victim is eligible as eligibility is set forth in this statute; (b)  Constitutes an act of terrorism as defined by 18 U.S.C. 2331, committed outside the United States against a resident of this state; (c)  Results in injury or death; and (d)  Is punishable by fine, imprisonment, or death or would be so punishable but for the fact that the person engaging in the conduct lacked capacity to commit the crime under the laws of this state. Criminally injurious conduct does not include conduct arising out of the ownership, maintenance, or use of a motor vehicle except when intended to cause personal injury or death; provided that criminally injurious conduct shall include violations of the provisions of section 18-4006 3(b), 18-8004 , 18-8006 , 18-8007 , 67-7027 , 67-7034 or 67-7035 , Idaho Code. (5)  "Dependent" means a natural person who is recognized under the law of this state to be wholly or partially dependent upon the victim for care or support and includes a child if under the age of eighteen (18) years or incapable of self-support and unmarried and includes a child of the victim conceived before the victim’s death but born after the victim’s death, including a child that is conceived as a result of the criminally injurious conduct. (6)  "Extenuating circumstances" means that a victim requires further mental health treatment due to trauma arising out of covered criminal conduct in order to perform major life functions or the activities of daily living. (7)  "Injury" means actual bodily harm or disfigurement and, with respect to a victim, includes pregnancy, venereal disease, mental or nervous shock, or extreme mental distress. For the purposes of this chapter, "extreme mental distress" means a substantial personal disorder of emotional processes, thought or cognition which impairs judgment, behavior or ability to cope with the ordinary demands of life. (8)  "Victim" means a person who suffers injury or death as a result of: (a)  Criminally injurious conduct; (b)  His good faith effort to prevent criminally injurious conduct; or (c)  His good faith effort to apprehend a person reasonably suspected of engaging in criminally injurious conduct. (9)  "Welfare benefits" as used in subsection (2) of this section, shall include sums payable to or on behalf of an indigent person under chapter 35, title 31 , Idaho Code. History: [72-1003, added 1986, ch. 337, sec. 1, p. 825; am. 1987, ch. 226, sec. 1, p. 480; am. 1989, ch. 52, sec. 1, p. 65; am. 1990, ch. 16, sec. 1, p. 26; am. 1996, ch. 416, sec. 1, p. 1386; am. 1997, ch. 128, sec. 1, p. 381; am. 2002, ch. 136, sec. 2, p. 374; am. 2006, ch. 291, sec. 1, p. 896.] How current is this law?