Section 19-5701 – Idaho State Legislature Senate Senate Leadership Senate Membership Senate Reading Calendars Senate Standing Committees Senate/Joint Rules Senate Staff Senate Page Program Session Job Opportunities Legislative Housing House House Leadership House Membership House Reading Calendars House Standing Committees House/Joint Rules House Staff House Page Program Session Job Opportunities Legislative Housing Committees Senate Standing Committees House Standing Committees Joint Standing Committees Interim/Special Committees Legislative Compensation Legislative Council Testiying Before Legislative Committees Legislators Senate Membership House Membership Who’s My Legislator? Contacting Legislators Laws/Rules Idaho Statutes Idaho Constitution Idaho Session Laws Administrative Rules Senate Rules House Rules Joint Senate and House Rules Legislative Sessions Live Audio/Video Streaming Home Idaho Laws & Rules Idaho Statutes Title 19 Chapter 57 Section 19-5701 Print Friendly Idaho Statutes Idaho Statutes are updated to the website July 1 following the legislative session. pecnv.out TITLE 19 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE CHAPTER 57 ADDRESS CONFIDENTIALITY FOR VICTIMS OF VIOLENCE 19-5701. Purpose. The legislature finds that persons attempting to escape from actual or threatened domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, human trafficking or malicious harassment frequently establish new addresses in order to prevent their assailants or probable assailants from finding them. The purpose of this chapter is to enable state and local agencies to respond to requests for public records without disclosing the location of a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, malicious harassment, human trafficking or stalking, to enable interagency cooperation with the secretary of state in providing address confidentiality for victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, malicious harassment, human trafficking or stalking, and to enable state and local agencies to accept a program participant’s use of an address designated by the secretary of state as a substitute mailing address. History: [19-5701, added 2008, ch. 232, sec. 1, p. 703; am. 2018, ch. 112, sec. 1, p. 227.] How current is this law?