Frequently Asked Questions | Crime Victims Compensation Program Skip to main content Official Government Website Industrial Commission Contact Us | How do I file an Application? To file an application, click here . Who can file an application? An application for the Idaho Crime Victims Compensation Program may be completed by any of the following persons: Victim Dependents of a deceased victim Parent Legal guardian of a minor victim Sibling(s) of a minor victim Individuals designated through a minor power of attorney Social Workers with the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare Emancipated minors How do you protect my privacy? I am worried about my information falling in the wrong hands. CVCP protects your confidentiality in several important ways. First, if you are over 18, we cannot communicate with anyone, including family members, unless you explicitly inform us that they can be an ‘authorized claimant’ on your case. Second, the program cannot share any law enforcement documents related to the incident with anyone, including the courts. Additionally, we are unable to share any medical records obtained. What happens after my application is received? The next step of the process involves a thorough review of your application, which can take 60-90 days. We understand this may seem like a long time, but please be assured that we are working diligently to ensure that all aspects of your case are considered. We appreciate your patience and understanding during this time. What are the eligibility requirements? The crime must have been committed in the state of Idaho after July 1, 1986. (Victims of crime occurring in other states can contact the Crime Victims Compensation Program in that state for information on where to file a claim.) The crime must be reported to law enforcement within 72 hours of the crime or there must be documented good cause why it is not. The victim/claimant must fully cooperate with law enforcement officials in investigating and prosecuting the crime. The victim/claimant must file a claim with the Idaho Crime Victims Compensation Program within one year of the crime or show good cause why they did not. The victim’s/claimant’s own misconduct must not have caused or contributed to the injury. Depending on the misconduct, eligibility may be denied or the award reduced. Preponderance of Evidence. CVCP must determine whether there is sufficient evidence to show that the victim was injured due to the criminally injurious conduct (the crime). Does the offender have to be convicted for the victim to be eligible? No, the offender does not have to be convicted for the victim to be eligible for compensation. However, there needs to be sufficient evidence to show there was a crime committed. I was found eligible. What do I do next? Your case manager will help you access and use your benefits. They will assist you in navigating the information we need to best serve you. If you are unsure who your case manager is, please call (208) 334-6080. What if I disagree with a decision CVCP made regarding my eligibility for benefits or a payment? If you disagree with a decision the program has made regarding eligibility for benefits or payment of a claim, an eligible claimant may file an appeal of this decision within 20 days of the date of the decision. An eligible claimant may also file a request for a hearing on the disputed matter within 45 days of the date of the decision. Hearings are held by the Adjudication Department of the Industrial Commission at locations as near to the victim/claimant as possible. Will you bill my insurance? Insurance benefits, also known as collateral sources, must be used or exhausted prior to payment of benefits by the CVCP. If benefits from these sources do not cover the full amount of the expense, funds from CVCP may be applied to the remaining obligations such as co-pays and deductibles. “Collateral source” refers to any source of financial assistance or benefits that a claimant may receive for economic losses related to criminal acts, excluding welfare benefits. This includes potential compensation from the offender, government programs (like Social Security, Medicare, or Medicaid), workers’ compensation, employer wage continuation programs, insurance proceeds, or health care service contracts. Importantly, benefits from these sources cannot be considered secondary to the benefits provided under this chapter, ensuring that they do not diminish the compensation available to the claimant. Please note that if you are an adult victim of a Sexual Assault, we will pay for the costs of your Sexual Assault Forensic and Medical Examination. If you receive a bill from the medical facility for the Forensic Examination, please contact us immediately by calling (208) 334-6080. What benefits are offered by CVCP? The Crime Victims Compensation Program provides funds for treatment expenses to the victim/claimant after all other sources of payment have been exhausted, up to a maximum of $25,000. When your claim is approved, payment may be made for reasonable expenses which are the direct result of the crime, including: Medical Examples include medical, surgical, dental, vision, hearing, medication/prescription, ambulance transport, physical therapy, diagnostic imaging, chiropractic care, medical devices, medical aids, medical and dental prostheses. CVCP will reimburse the medical provider for the expenses the victim has incurred for treatment of injuries sustained as a direct result of the criminally injurious conduct (crime). Sexual Assault Forensic and Medical Examinations Sexual assault forensic and medical examination costs covered by the program include but are not limited to examiner fees, facility fees, laboratory fees, antibiotics for Sexually Transmitted Infections, HIV prophylaxis, medical prescriptions, and other medications. Follow up visits as prescribed by the treating physician due to an assault may also be covered. Mental Health You are initially eligible for Mental Health Benefits up to $2,500.00. Once you surpass that amount, CVCP will contact you to discuss the Mental Health Extenuating Circumstances process. CVCP will reimburse the mental health provider for the expenses the victim has incurred for treatment that is a direct result of the criminally injurious conduct (crime). CVCP will work with your mental health providers directly to gather the required CVCP documentation (bills, Initial Intake, CVCP Mental Health Treatment Plan, etc.). It is important that you know that CVCP relies heavily on your mental health provider to determine what percentage of your care is related to the crime. If that percentage changes, CVCP will contact you immediately. CVCP will not reimburse for cancellation or missed appointment fees nor will they consider payments for sessions that included the offender. Family Assistance Benefits According to Idaho statute, the spouse, parent, grandparent, child, grandchild, or sibling of a victim who is killed, kidnapped, sexually assaulted, or subjected to domestic violence or child injury is entitled to reimbursement for mental health treatment received as a result of the criminally injurious conduct (crime). The benefit may not exceed $500 for each person or $1500.00 for a family. Travel Expenses A claimant or a spouse, parent, child or sibling of a claimant or victim may be reimbursed for his or her expenses for necessary travel incurred in connection with obtaining benefits. If the claimant utilizes a private vehicle, reimbursement shall be at the mileage rate allowed by the State Board of Examiners for state employees. Reimbursement shall be provided only if services are not available in the local area and is limited to one (1) round trip per day. The claimant shall not be reimbursed for the first fifteen (15) miles of any round trip, nor for traveling any round trip of fifteen (15) miles or less. Such distance shall be calculated by the shortest practical route of travel. The mileage reimbursement amount shall be credited to the medical benefit. Funeral and Burial Expenses CVCP will collaborate with funeral homes to assist families in covering funeral costs for victims, providing benefits of up to $5,000.00. Funeral expense can include funeral services, burial plots, cremation, headstones, and other related expenses. Economic Support & Loss of Support Economic Support (Wage Loss or Weekly Compensation) and Loss of Support (Dependent Death) Benefits. Below is some basic information about those specific benefits: If the victim is a minor, 17 years of age and younger, CVCP is going to assume they are not employed, unless specific information is provided on the application. Parents or guardians of minor children are welcome to call us with questions at 208-334-6080. If the victim was an adult who meets any of the criteria below, you may be eligible for Economic Support: Employed at the time of the incident and experienced a total loss of wage for over a week as a result of criminally injurious conduct (the crime) or Suffered an injury that left them unable to work in the future, even though they could work before the injury and were not employed at the time of the accident or Employable but was not employed at the time of the injury (perhaps this person had a job offer); or Became ineligible for unemployment because of the crime. Loss of support may be available for dependents of a deceased victim who was either employed or employable but not employed at the time of their death. A dependent means natural person who is recognized under the law of this state to be wholly or partially dependent upon the victim for care or support and includes a child if under the age of eighteen (18) years or incapable of self-support and unmarried and includes a child of the victim conceived before the victim’s death but born after the victim’s death, including a child that is conceived as a result of the criminally injurious conduct. Your case manager would be happy to answer any questions you have regarding either of these benefits. I was the victim of a vehicular accident. Do I qualify for CVCP? The only vehicular crimes covered by CVCP: 18-4006 3(b) – Vehicular Manslaughter; Persons under the influence of alcohol, drugs or any other intoxicating substances 18-8004 – Motor Vehicles; Persons under the influence of alcohol, drugs or any other intoxicating substances 18-8006 – Motor Vehicles; Aggravated driving while under the influence of alcohol, drugs or any other intoxicating substances 18-8007 – Motor Vehicles; Leaving the scene of accident resulting in injury or death 67-7027 – Idaho Safe Boating Act; Collision, accidents and casualties reporting 67-7034 – Idaho Safe Boating Act; Persons under the influence of alcohol, drugs or any other intoxicating substances 67-7035 – Idaho Safe Boating Act; Aggravated Operating while under the influence of alcohol, drugs or any other intoxicating substances What expenses are not covered by CVCP? Under the program, there are certain expenses related to a crime that are not covered under the Crime Victims Compensation Act, this includes expenses related to: Property loss. Pain and suffering. Victims who are confined in a prison, correctional facility, or public institution are ineligible for benefits while they are incarcerated. What is Restitution? According to Idaho law, the victim/claimant is entitled to reimbursement from the guilty party for expenses directly related to the crime. This reimbursement is called restitution. A victim may request the criminal court to order the offender to pay restitution for expenses that are not covered by the program, such as property damage, wage loss, expenses to attend criminal court, or costs for crime-scene cleanup. How do I Request Restitution? The victim/claimant should contact the prosecuting attorney’s office about ordering restitution as soon as possible. The prosecuting attorney’s office will assist in preparing a restitution statement to inform the judge of your reimbursable expenses and enable the judge to determine and order the appropriate restitution. If restitution is determined inappropriate, an order giving the reasons for the denial will be issued by the court. Twin Falls Mass Casualty Application Minor/Child Victim Application Adult Victim Application Deceased  Victim Application Application for Adult Sexual Assault Forensic and Medical Examination Reported to Law Enforcement Application for Adult Sexual Assault Forensic and Medical Examination Not Reported to Law Enforcement Agency policy statements and guidance documents shall not have the force and effect of law pursuant to section 67-5207A, Idaho Code. ver: 3.5.2a | last updated: September 3, 2025 at 11:18 am