Complete an Application | Crime Victims Compensation Program Skip to main content Official Government Website Industrial Commission Contact Us | The Crime Victim Compensation Program (CVCP) is dedicated to supporting individuals who have experienced the devastating impact of crime. We provide financial assistance to help cover essential costs such as medical expenses, mental health, and lost wages (economic support), enabling victims to focus on their recovery and rebuilding their lives. We sincerely regret that you find yourself in this situation, as it means you have encountered a crime. Please know that our mission is to assist you during this difficult time and to ensure you have access to the resources and support you need. Any information received by CVCP shall be kept confidential except as provided in section 72-1007 , Idaho Code. Eligibility Requirements: To be eligible to receive financial assistance, the following conditions must be met: The crime must have been committed in Idaho after July 1, 1986. The victim/claimant must file a claim with the Idaho Crime Victims Compensation Program within one year of the crime or show good cause why they did not. The crime must be reported to law enforcement officials within 72 hours of the occurrence or documented good cause why it was not reported. The victim/claimant must fully cooperate with law enforcement officials to investigate and prosecute the crime. The victim’s/claimant’s misconduct must not have caused or contributed to the injury (Depending on the misconduct, eligibility may be denied or the award reduced). Preponderance of Evidence – CVCP staff must determine that there is sufficient evidence and fact to determine that the victim was injured as a result of criminally injurious conduct. How to apply: For more information about how to apply, please click here . Completed and signed applications can be sent via: Email to: cvcp.admin@iic.idaho.gov Fax: 208-332-7559 Mail to: IDAHO CRIME VICTIMS COMPENSATION PROGRAM P.O. BOX 83720 BOISE, ID 83720-0041 Benefit Details: The Crime Victims Compensation Program provides funds for treatment expenses to the victim/claimant after all other payment sources have been exhausted, up to a maximum of $25,000. When your claim is approved, payment may be made for reasonable expenses that are the direct result of the crime. For more details about the benefits available, please see the information below: Medical Examples include medical, surgical, dental, vision, hearing, medication/prescription, ambulance transport, physical therapy, diagnostic imaging, chiropractic care, medical devices, medical aids, medical and dental prostheses. CVCP will reimburse the medical provider for the expenses the victim has incurred for treatment of injuries sustained as a direct result of the criminally injurious conduct (crime). Sexual Assault Forensic and Medical Examinations Sexual assault forensic and medical examination costs covered by the program include but are not limited to examiner fees, facility fees, laboratory fees, antibiotics for Sexually Transmitted Infections, HIV prophylaxis, medical prescriptions, and other medications. Follow up visits as prescribed by the treating physician due to an assault may also be covered. Mental Health You are initially eligible for Mental Health Benefits up to $2,500.00. Once you surpass that amount, CVCP will contact you to discuss the Mental Health Extenuating Circumstances process. CVCP will reimburse the mental health provider for the expenses the victim has incurred for treatment that is a direct result of the criminally injurious conduct (crime). CVCP will work with your mental health providers directly to gather the required CVCP documentation (bills, Initial Intake, CVCP Mental Health Treatment Plan, etc.). It is important that you know that CVCP relies heavily on your mental health provider to determine what percentage of your care is related to the crime. If that percentage changes, CVCP will contact you immediately. CVCP will not reimburse for cancellation or missed appointment fees nor will they consider payments for sessions that included the offender. Family Assistance Benefits According to Idaho statute, the spouse, parent, grandparent, child, grandchild, or sibling of a victim who is killed, kidnapped, sexually assaulted, or subjected to domestic violence or child injury is entitled to reimbursement for mental health treatment received as a result of the criminally injurious conduct (crime). The benefit may not exceed $500 for each person or $1500.00 for a family. Travel Expenses A claimant or a spouse, parent, child or sibling of a claimant or victim may be reimbursed for his or her expenses for necessary travel incurred in connection with obtaining benefits. If the claimant utilizes a private vehicle, reimbursement shall be at the mileage rate allowed by the State Board of Examiners for state employees [insert current mileage rate]. Reimbursement shall be provided only if services are not available in the local area and is limited to one (1) round trip per day. The claimant shall not be reimbursed for the first fifteen (15) miles of any round trip, nor for traveling any round trip of fifteen (15) miles or less. Such distance shall be calculated by the shortest practical route of travel. The mileage reimbursement amount shall be credited to the medical benefit. Funeral and Burial Expenses CVCP will collaborate with funeral homes to assist families in covering funeral costs for victims, providing benefits of up to $5,000.00. Funeral expense can include funeral services, burial plots, cremation, headstones, and other related expenses. Economic Support & Loss of Support Economic Support (Wage Loss or Weekly Compensation) and Loss of Support (Dependent Death) Benefits. Below is some basic information about those specific benefits: If the victim is a minor, 17 years of age and younger, CVCP is going to assume they are not employed, unless specific information is provided on the application. Parents or guardians of minor children are welcome to call us with questions at 208-334-6080. If the victim was an adult who meets any of the criteria below, you may be eligible for Economic Support: Employed at the time of the incident and experienced a total loss of wage for over a week as a result of criminally injurious conduct (the crime) or Suffered an injury that left them unable to work in the future, even though they could work before the injury and were not employed at the time of the accident or Employable but was not employed at the time of the injury (perhaps this person had a job offer); or Became ineligible for unemployment because of the crime. Loss of support may be available for dependents of a deceased victim who was either employed or employable but not employed at the time of their death. A dependent means natural person who is recognized under the law of this state to be wholly or partially dependent upon the victim for care or support and includes a child if under the age of eighteen (18) years or incapable of self-support and unmarried and includes a child of the victim conceived before the victim’s death but born after the victim’s death, including a child that is conceived as a result of the criminally injurious conduct. Your case manager would be happy to answer any questions you have regarding either of these benefits. Collateral Sources/Insurances Insurance benefits, also known as collateral sources, must be used or exhausted prior to payment of benefits by the CVCP. If benefits from these sources do not cover the full amount of the expense, funds from CVCP may be applied to the remaining obligations such as co-pays and deductibles. “Collateral source” refers to any source of financial assistance or benefits that a claimant may receive for economic losses related to criminal acts, excluding welfare benefits. This includes potential compensation from the offender, government programs (like Social Security, Medicare, or Medicaid), workers’ compensation, employer wage continuation programs, insurance proceeds, or health care service contracts. Importantly, benefits from these sources cannot be considered secondary to the benefits provided under this chapter, ensuring that they do not diminish the compensation available to the claimant. Out of Pocket Expenses Claimants/victims can be reimbursed for medical and other crime-related expenses they have incurred. If you have paid co-pays, deductibles, prescriptions, then please reach out to your Case Manager. Receipts are required. Medical Providers Accepting Payment from CVCP Payments made by the CVCP are based on the medical fee schedule authorized under administrative rules. Payments will be based on the medical fee schedule in place at the time of service. Additionally, a medical provider who accepts the full allowable payment from the commission under this chapter for medical services provided to a victim or claimant shall be deemed to have agreed to accept those payments as payment in full for those medical services. You can find more information or answers to Frequently Answered Questions by visiting our FAQ page . Twin Falls Mass Casualty Application Minor/Child Victim Application Adult Victim Application Deceased  Victim Application Application for Adult Sexual Assault Forensic and Medical Examination Reported to Law Enforcement Application for Adult Sexual Assault Forensic and Medical Examination Not Reported to Law Enforcement Agency policy statements and guidance documents shall not have the force and effect of law pursuant to section 67-5207A, Idaho Code. ver: 3.5.2a | last updated: June 10, 2025 at 11:04 am