Victims' Compensation Assistance Program - Delaware Department of Justice - State of Delaware Delaware Department of Justice Attorney General Kathy Jennings Victims’ Compensation Assistance Program Listen Popular Resources Victims’ Compensation Application (Opens in a new window.) Printable Application Formulario de Reclamacíon About the Program The purpose of the Victims’ Compensation Assistance Program is to alleviate some of the financial burdens faced by victims, those that are directly related to the specific offense, by providing compensation for certain losses. Protecting and serving victims of crime is about more than investigation and prosecution—it’s also about helping victims and their families along the road to recovery. The Victims’ Compensation Assistance Program (VCAP) can provide financial assistance to help cover the costs of a variety of services that help victims and their families begin to rebuild their lives, including lost wages, medical expenses, payment for mental health counseling, and funeral expenses. By awarding financial compensation for losses that victims sustain as a result of violent crime, VCAP can help alleviate the financial burden and distress that crime leaves behind. The Victims’ Compensation Assistance Program serves as an important lifeline, reaching out to victims wherever they are located throughout all three Delaware counties. Applications are received by the office and reviewed by our staff. The Agency manages the program’s funds and awards compensation. The Victims’ Compensation Assistance Program is not an insurance company. Funding for the program is generated by a surcharge on fines and penalties imposed by the Courts. No tax dollars are used to fund the program. For more information, contact the Victims’ Compensation Assistance Program at (302) 255-1770  or VCAP@delaware.gov, or call the Delaware Helpline at 1-800-464-HELP. FAQs Who can get help? The Delaware Victims’ Compensation Assistance Program provides compensation to victims of violent crimes and their families for crime related expenses. Compensation is available for payment of medical and dental expenses, mental health counseling, prescription medication, lost wages, funeral/burial support, temporary housing and moving or relocation services, crime related expenses and other costs approved by the Agency. VCAP only pays expenses that are not covered by another source of funding, such as health or auto insurance. Property losses are not covered. Eligibility requirements are as follows: The crime must be reported to law enforcement within 72 hours. An application must be filed with VCAP within 1 year of the crime. Victims must cooperate with law enforcement agencies. Victims must cooperate with VCAP staff and provide all information requested. The victim must not have caused or contributed to his/her injury or death. What Losses may be paid? Medical and/or dental expenses for the victim. Mental health treatment or counseling. Wage or income loss. Funeral and/or burial expenses. Crime scene clean-up. Moving/Relocation Expenses. Temporary Housing. Change of locks. Replace items seized as evidence. Are there any limits? The Victims’ Compensation Assistance Program may only pay crime-related losses not covered by insurance or other sources. No award will exceed $25,000.00. Limits have been set for certain types of losses. All losses must be supported by documentation prior to compensation being awarded. You cannot be paid for lost, damaged, or stolen property, or for pain and suffering. A parent or guardian must apply for anyone under the age of 18. A personal representative should file on behalf of deceased victims or those unable to apply due to physical or mental limitations. Contact Information Victims’ Compensation Assistance Program 900 North King Street, Suite 4 Wilmington, DE 19801 Phone: (302) 255-1770 Fax: (302) 577-1326 VCAP@delaware.gov Delaware Victim Center (In-State Only) (800) VICTIM-1 (942-8461) Delaware DOJ Victim Service Unit (800) 870-1790 Delaware Helpline In State:(800) 464-HELP (4357) Out of State: (800) 273-9500 Resources Annual Reports Statute Rules & Regulations Victims’ Compensation Brochure | Folleto: Programa de Asistencia de Compensación de Víctimas Archive Victims’ Compensation Application (Opens in a new window.) | Printable Application | Formulario de Reclamacíon Local Resources Archival translations of the “About the Program” section are available in Español | 中文 | 한국어 | हिन्दी | Kreyòl Ayisyen | Français Archival translations of the FAQs are available in Español | 中文 | 한국어 | हिन्दी | Kreyòl Ayisyen | Français About the Office Attorney General’s Bio Career Opportunities News Releases DIVISIONS: Criminal Civil Family Fraud & Consumer Protection Civil Rights & Public Trust CONNECT: Contact Us FOIA Request Facebook Page (Opens in a new window.) Twitter Account (Opens in a new window.) Instagram Account (Opens in a new window.) Youtube Account (Opens in a new window.) + Show state footer menu Delaware's Government Delaware's Governor State Directory Elected Officials General Assembly Delaware Courts State Employees Cities & Towns Delaware State Code State Regulations Business First Steps Phone Directory Locations Directory Delaware Public Meetings Voting & Elections Transparency Choose Health DE (Opens in a new window.) Tax Center Personal Income Tax Privacy Policy Weather & Travel Contact State Agencies Corporations Franchise Tax Gross Receipts Tax Withholding Tax Guides to Services Help Center Mobile Apps E-mail / Text Alerts Social Media Facebook page for Delaware.gov (opens in a new window) X (formerly Twitter) page for Delaware.gov (opens in a new window) Flickr page for Delaware.gov (opens in a new window) YouTube page for Delaware.gov (opens in a new window) Instagram page for Delaware.gov (opens in a new window) Make Text Size Smaller Reset Text Size Make Text Size Bigger Built by the Government Information Center ©MMXXVI Delaware.gov - Hide state footer menu