Nebraska Legislature NEBRASKA LEGISLATURE The official site of the Nebraska Unicameral Legislature Nebraska Revised Statute 81-1429.03 Revised Statutes Chapter 81 81-1429.03 Print Friendly Chapter 81 81-1429.03. Sexual assaults; forensic medical examination; payment; forensic DNA testing; requirements; Sexual Assault Payment Program; administrator; duties; Sexual Assault Payment Program Cash Fund; created; use; investment. (1) The full out-of-pocket cost or expense that may be charged to a sexual assault victim in connection with a forensic medical examination shall be paid from the Sexual Assault Payment Program Cash Fund or the Victim's Compensation Fund. A report of a forensic medical examination shall not be remitted to the patient or his or her insurance for payment. (2) Except as provided under section 81-2010 , all forensic DNA tests shall be performed by a laboratory which is accredited by the American Society of Crime Laboratory Directors/Laboratory Accreditation Board or by any other national accrediting body or public agency which has requirements that are substantially equivalent to or more comprehensive than those of the society. (3) The full out-of-pocket cost or expense to be paid from the Sexual Assault Payment Program Cash Fund or the Victim's Compensation Fund for a forensic medical examination described in subsection (1) of this section shall include: (a) An examiner's fee for: (i) Examination of physical trauma; (ii) Determination of penetration or force; (iii) Patient interview; and (iv) Collection and evaluation of evidence; (b) An examination facility fee for the: (i) Emergency room, clinic room, office room, or child advocacy center; and (ii) Pelvic tray and other medically required supplies; and (c) The laboratory fees for collection and processing of specimens for criminal evidence, the determination of the presence of any sexually transmitted disease, and pregnancy testing. (4) There is established within the Department of Justice, under the direction of the Attorney General, the position of administrator for the Sexual Assault Payment Program. The purpose of the program and the responsibilities of the administrator shall be to coordinate the distribution of forensic medical examination kits to health care providers at no cost to the providers, oversee forensic medical examination training throughout the state, and coordinate payments from the Sexual Assault Payment Program Cash Fund or the Victim's Compensation Fund. (5) The Sexual Assault Payment Program Cash Fund is created. The fund shall be administered by the commission. The fund shall consist of any money appropriated to it by the Legislature and any money received by the commission for the program, including federal and other public and private funds. The fund shall be used for the payment of the full out-of-pocket costs or expenses for forensic medical examinations pursuant to subsection (3) of this section, for the purpose set forth in subsection (4) of this section, and for the purchase of forensic medical examination kits. The fund shall be used to pay only those charges determined by the commission to be reasonable and fair. The fund shall be used to pay up to two hundred dollars for the examiner's fee and up to three hundred dollars for the examination facility fee. The examiner and facility shall provide additional documentation as determined by the commission for payment of charges in excess of such amounts. The fund may also be used to facilitate programs that reduce or prevent the crimes of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, child abuse, child sexual assault, human trafficking, labor trafficking, or sex trafficking or that enhance the safety of victims of such crimes. Any money in the fund available for investment shall be invested by the state investment officer pursuant to the Nebraska Capital Expansion Act and the Nebraska State Funds Investment Act. Source Laws 1996, LB 1213, § 2; Laws 2001, LB 432, § 13; R.S.1943, (2014), § 81-2010.03; Laws 2016, LB843, § 2; Laws 2026, LB1072, § 199. Operative Date: April 8, 2026 Cross References Nebraska Capital Expansion Act, see section 72-1269 . Nebraska State Funds Investment Act, see section 72-1260 . Frequent Questions Americans with Disabilities Act Notice Privacy Policy Glossary of Terms Contact Us Disclaimer OFFICIAL NEBRASKA GOVERNMENT WEBSITE Copyright © Nebraska Legislature, all rights reserved.