Nebraska Legislature NEBRASKA LEGISLATURE The official site of the Nebraska Unicameral Legislature Nebraska Revised Statute 81-1807 Revised Statutes Chapter 81 81-1807 Print Friendly Chapter 81 81-1807. Victim; compensation; health care provider; reimbursement; application. (1) Any person who may be eligible for compensation under the Nebraska Crime Victim's Reparations Act may make application to the committee on forms provided by the committee. Such application need not be signed and acknowledged before a notary public. If the person entitled to make application is a minor or mentally incompetent, the application may be made on his or her behalf by his or her parent, guardian, or any other individual authorized to administer his or her estate. Residents and nonresidents of Nebraska who are victims of crimes committed in Nebraska shall be treated similarly in determining compensation awards under the act. A resident of Nebraska who is the victim of a crime committed in another state shall be eligible for compensation if (a) the crime would be compensable had it occurred in Nebraska and (b) the crime occurred in a state which does not have a crime victim compensation program for which the person is eligible. (2)(a) Beginning on August 28, 2021, a health care provider may, with the permission of the victim, apply for reimbursement for health care costs incurred by the provider that are otherwise to be paid for by a victim of sexual assault, domestic assault, or child abuse and for which the provider will not otherwise receive reimbursement from private insurance, the medical assistance program established pursuant to the Medical Assistance Act, the Sexual Assault Payment Program, or any other entity, source, or fund, whether public or private. (b) To be eligible for reimbursement under this section, such health care costs must have been incurred by the health care provider in treating or examining injuries of the victim arising out of the sexual assault, domestic assault, or child abuse. The provider shall apply to the committee on forms provided by the committee. Source Laws 1978, LB 910, § 7; Laws 1986, LB 540, § 8; Laws 1990, LB 87, § 4; Laws 2021, LB372, § 1; Laws 2021, LB497, § 2. Cross References Medical Assistance Act, see section 68-901 . Frequent Questions Americans with Disabilities Act Notice Privacy Policy Glossary of Terms Contact Us Disclaimer OFFICIAL NEBRASKA GOVERNMENT WEBSITE Copyright © Nebraska Legislature, all rights reserved.