Address Confidentiality Program | Nebraska Secretary of State Skip to main content Nebraska Secretary of State Robert B. Evnen Address Confidentiality Program The Nebraska Address Confidentiality Program (ACP) provides services to Nebraska residents who are victims of domestic violence, sexual assault and stalking. Basics of program. The program has two basic parts. First, the program provides victims who have moved to a new location unknown to their abuser with a substitute address for use when interacting with state and local agencies. Second, the program provides participants with a new mailing address which keeps their actual address confidential and free from the risk of discovery by third parties through public records. Confidentiality is maintained because the public records contain only the new mailing address. The Secretary of State's Office will receive participants’ mail and forward it to them at their actual address by means of a cost-free, first-class mail forwarding service. Program eligibility. To be eligible for ACP, an individual must be (1) a victim of abuse, sexual assault or stalking who fears for his or her safety, or a parent or guardian applying on behalf of a minor or incapacitated person and (2) a Nebraska resident who has recently relocated to a place unknown to his or her abuser or is planning to move in the near future. Applying for the program. Application for ACP is made in person at one of the designated victim assistance centers located throughout the state. Applications will not be accepted at the Secretary of State’s Office. Designated centers are state or local agencies as well as private organizations that provide counseling and shelter services to victims of abuse, sexual assault or stalking. If you or someone you know is the victim of domestic violence, our list of designated centers is an excellent resource for assistance. Victim assistance centers. The following victim assistance centers have been designated by the secretary of state to offer counseling and assistance in applying for ACP: Lincoln Omaha Area Southeast Area Northeast Area South Central Area North Central Area Panhandle Area Fax numbers and email addresses of counseling centers are provided for contact information only. Do not send confidential information via these means of communication. View ACP Statutes ACP Rules and Regulations, Title 440 ACP Contact Information Phone: (402) 471-3568 or toll free (866) ACP-NEBR (227-6327) Mailing address: P.O. Box 98921, Lincoln, NE 68509 Send Email to: Address Confidentiality Program Footer Column 1 Nebraska Secretary of State Phone 402.471.2554 Fax 402.471.3237 Mailing Address P.O. Box 94608 Lincoln, NE 68509-4608 Capitol Office 1445 K Street, Suite 2300 Lincoln, NE 68508 Business Services 1201 N Street, Suite 120 Lincoln, NE 68508 Footer Column 2 Robert B. Evnen About the Office Robert Evnen Bio News Releases Contact Us Powered by Tyler Technologies Copyright © 2026 State of Nebraska Nebraska.gov | Nebraska Policies | Login