Claim Process – Montana Department of Justice Skip to content Office of Victim Services Claim Process DOJ Webmaster 2026-10-02T11:17:53-06:00 Claim Process Verification Process The CVC program will begin processing your application the day it is received. Information contained on the application must be verified through law enforcement and other agencies before a decision can be made. The staff will review all information received to determine if the application meets the eligibility criteria. Additional information may be requested from you. It is important that you respond to our requests as soon as possible. Requested information not received by our office can delay a decision and may lead to your application being put on hold or denied until the required information is submitted. Approval If your application meets eligibility requirements, you will be notified in writing that benefits have been awarded. Notice of the award is also sent to law enforcement, the city or county attorney, and medical providers listed on the claim form. Denial If your application does not meet the eligibility criteria, you will be notified in writing of the denial of benefits and the reason for the denial. Notice of the denial is also sent to the law enforcement agency handling the case, the city or county attorney, your attorney (if applicable) and medical providers. Reasons for the denial will not be released to any medical provider. Appeals Please talk to your assigned CVC claims examiner to learn more about your rights and options regarding claim decisions. Informal Hearing A claimant has the right to request an informal hearing within 30 days after a claim is denied. The right to an informal hearing is waived unless the request is either postmarked or received by the Crime Victim Compensation program within 30 days after the claim determination is mailed. The claimant’s request must: Be in writing State the action the claimant wishes the office to take State the reasons the office should take such action After review, the Crime Victim Compensation program will make a final determination or recommend a formal hearing be held. Formal Hearing After the office has made final determination concerning any matter relating to a claim, if the claimant disputes the office’s determination, the claimant may appeal to the district court for the county in which the claimant resides for review. Penalty for Fraudulently Obtaining CVC Benefits Any person who knowingly makes a false claim or a false statement, or who uses any other fraudulent device in connection with any claim, is guilty of theft and, if convicted, in addition to other penalties, will forfeit and repay any compensation paid under 53-9-111 of the Montana Code Annotated. Skip OVS Pages Menu OVS Subscribe to our Email List Page load link Go to Top