Forensic Rape Examination Payment Program – Montana Department of Justice Skip to content Office of Victim Services Forensic Rape Examination Payment Program DOJ Webmaster 2026-10-02T12:46:10-06:00 Forensic Rape Examination Payment Program The Forensic Rape Examination Payment Program (FREPP) was enacted by the 2005 Montana Legislature in response to the federal Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). VAWA prohibits healthcare facilities from billing survivors of sexual assault for the cost of a forensic exam to collect evidence. In cases that are reported to law enforcement, the criminal justice agency with jurisdiction is responsible for the cost of the exam. For cases that are not reported to law enforcement, the cost is paid by FREPP at the Montana Department of Justice. The program ensures that the forensic evidence necessary to prosecute cases is available, even if survivors are not ready to report the crime to law enforcement when they first seek medical care. Under 46-15-411 MCA , FREPP payments are available to healthcare providers that administer the exam using a sexual assault evidence kit to collect the evidence. Exams administered without using a kit are not eligible. FREPP pays for the cost of a sexual assault exam up to a maximum of $600. Covered costs include: Complete and customary sexual assault exam Emergency room/facility charge Physician/nurse examiner charge Sexual transmitted infection and pregnancy prophylaxis Blood and urine specimens for toxicology testing Supplies Laboratory testing Pharmaceuticals Mailing charges A healthcare provider must accept FREPP’s reimbursement rate as payment in full for covered services and may not submit any remaining balance to the survivor or commence civil actions against the survivor to recover the balance. Treatment of any physical injuries that may have occurred at the time of the sexual assault may still be billed to the survivor. Download FREPP Brochure Skip OVS Pages Menu OVS Subscribe to our Email List FREPP Frequently Asked Questions Ordering Sexual Assault and Toxicology Kits Healthcare facilities may order sexual assault evidence kits, free of charge, by emailing [email protected] . Toxicology kits must be ordered separately by emailing [email protected] . Please limit toxicology kit orders to no more than six kits at a time. The approximate shelf life for toxicology kits is 9 to 18 months. Sexual assault and toxicology kits usually ship within 1-3 business days. What happens to kits once they’re collected? Pursuant to 46-15-404, Montana Code Annotated, healthcare facilities must notify the law enforcement agency of the kit’s collection within 24 hours of the exam. The agency must take possession of the kit within 5 business days and then transfer the kit to the crime lab within 30 days from its receipt for analysis. For cases not reported to law enforcement: The healthcare facility must transfer the kit to FREPP at the Montana Department of Justice, which will hold the evidence until the survivor decides to report the assault or for 75 years. Please deliver or ship these anonymous kits via a tracked method to: DOJ DCI FREPP 2225 11 th Avenue Helena, MT 59601 As of May 9, 2025, FREPP will submit toxicology samples included with kits it receives to the Crime Lab for testing because the toxicology samples can deteriorate quickly. FREPP will hold the toxicology results until the survivor decides to report the assault or for 75 years. A victim, law enforcement agency to which a victim has reported, or representative of a victim who has the victim’s written permission may request a copy of the toxicology report by contacting FREPP at [email protected] or 406-444-3653. The collection and transfer of any sexual assault evidence kit must be recorded in the online Kit Track System promptly. Please contact [email protected] or 406-444-9820 for information about how to register for a Kit Track account or for technical support. How can survivors track their kit? Survivors may track the status and location of their evidence kit by entering their date of birth and the Kit ID number on the Sexual Assault Kit Status web page. If you need help locating your Kit ID number, please email [email protected] or call 406-444-9820. Assistance is generally available between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. Please leave a message outside of office hours. How to seek FREPP reimbursement To seek reimbursement for the cost of exams administered in sexual assault cases that are not reported to law enforcement, the healthcare facility must submit a detailed invoice, including CPT codes, to FREPP within 90 days of the date of the exam. This information must be mailed to: DOJ DCI FREPP 2225 11 th Avenue Helena, MT 59601 In the case of a delayed report to law enforcement, how can the agency with jurisdiction obtain a previously unreported kit held by FREPP? Please contact [email protected] or 406-444-9869. For more information, contact FREPP at: Hope Stockwell, SARN Coordinator E-Mail: [email protected] Phone: 406-444-9869 Page load link Go to Top