CVC Frequently Asked Questions – Montana Department of Justice Skip to content Office of Victim Services CVC Frequently Asked Questions DOJ Webmaster 2026-10-02T11:19:53-06:00 CVC Frequently Asked Questions Click on question to show the answer How long will it take to receive a decision on compensation benefits? The goal of the CVC program is to determine eligibility on a claim within 60 days. Time may vary depending on the response to the CVC requests for information. Should I send in copies of medical bills along with the application? Yes, please send copies of the bills with your claim form. You are CVC’s only source of information. If applicable, submit a copy of your insurance explanation of benefits. CVC utilizes the information provided by the claimant to request documentation from others such as medical providers, funeral homes, and employers. If I am a victim of domestic violence, can I receive compensation if I’m living with the offender? Yes, domestic violence victims who live with the offender may still be eligible to receive compensation if the other eligibility requirements are met. However, if the award would unjustly benefit the offender, benefits may be denied. When can children of homicide victims receive loss of support benefits? Loss of support benefits may be awarded to children of homicide victims who did not live with the victim if the victim was contributing to the care or support of the children.  If the claimant is receiving Social Security benefits for the child and the amount received is more than the allowable amount paid by CVC, the claimant would be required to accept the Social Security benefit in lieu of CVC benefits. What compensation benefits are available for secondary victims? The parents, siblings, step-parents, step-siblings, and children of primary victims may receive mental health counseling benefits if the primary victim is either a victim of a homicide or a child victim of a sexual offense. Minor children who witness a domestic assault of a parent are also eligible for mental health counseling. Can the secondary victim receive benefits if benefits have been denied to the primary victim? No, for a secondary victim to receive CVC benefits, the primary victim must be awarded benefits. What is contribution? Contribution is conduct on the part of the victim that may have caused or contributed to the injuries or death. The CVC program’s review of contribution includes but it is not limited to the following factors: whether charges are filed against you or the suspect, comparable or reasonable force, age of the victim, and issues of mutual combat. Does the Program pay for stolen or damaged property? No, the CVC program cannot pay for stolen, damaged, or destroyed property.  CVC may pay for items such as eyeglasses, hearing aids, crutches, braces, and prosthetic devices. Should I wait to file an application until after the offender has been arrested or convicted? No, you should apply for Crime Victim Compensation as soon as possible after the crime. Compensation is not based upon the arrest or conviction of the offender. Can I receive compensation if the offender has been ordered to pay restitution? Yes, you can apply for compensation if restitution has been ordered. If restitution has been ordered and you are an eligible victim, benefits can still be paid. The CVC program will advise the prosecuting attorney that you have been awarded compensation benefits. Any restitution payments received by you for the same expenses submitted to CVC will be deducted from the total compensation payment. If I received compensation, can I sue the offender for the injuries sustained in the crime? Yes, you may still sue the offender (or any other liable party) for damages caused by the crime. The CVC program is entitled to reimbursement if the civil settlement includes payment for the same expenses previously paid by CVC. What if I am unable to find a provider who accepts Medicaid, or if my private insurance denies a claim at no fault of my own? If you are having difficulty finding a provider who accepts Medicaid as payment, or if you are having issues with benefit coverage with your private insurance, please contact your claims investigator at CVC.  CVC may grant exceptions in hardship cases, but you must receive prior approval from CVC. Skip OVS Pages Menu OVS Subscribe to our Email List Contact Office of Victim Services Crime Victim Compensation Program Phone: (406) 444-3653 Toll-Free: 1-800-498-6455 Fax: (406) 444-5335 E-mail: [email protected] Page load link Go to Top