Mont. Admin. r. 23.15.402 - FORENSIC RAPE EXAMINATION PAYMENT PROGRAM COVERAGE GUIDELINES | State Regulations | US Law | LII / Legal Information Institute Please help us improve our site! × No thank you Mont. Admin. r. 23.15.402 - FORENSIC RAPE EXAMINATION PAYMENT PROGRAM COVERAGE GUIDELINES State Regulations Compare (1) To be eligible to receive FREPP coverage,
				a victim must have a forensic rape examination performed within 72 hours of the
				alleged sexual assault and must choose not to report the alleged incident to
				law enforcement. (2) To be eligible
				for reimbursement by FREPP the forensic rape examination must be: (a) performed by a physician or by other
				medical providers who have been trained to gather evidence of a sexual assault
				in a manner suitable for use in a court of law; and (b) a forensic rape examination kit supplied
				by FREPP must be used. (3) FREPP will pay a maximum of $600 to
				medical providers who perform forensic rape examinations on victims who do not
				choose to report the alleged sexual assault to law enforcement. (a) The forensic rape examination payment
				includes the following covered costs: (i) a
				complete and customary forensic rape examination; (ii) emergency room/facility
				charges; (iii) medical provider
				charges; (iv) sexually transmitted
				disease (STD) and pregnancy prophylaxis; (v) blood and urine specimens for toxicology
				testing; (vi) supplies; (vii) laboratory testing; (viii) pharmaceuticals; and (ix) shipping costs. (4) The FREPP payment constitutes
				payment in full for all services related to the forensic rape examination and
				the medical provider may not bill the victim for covered costs associated with
				the examination that exceed the allowable payment of $600. (5) The FREPP payment does not cover costs
				associated with the treatment of physical injuries due to the alleged sexual
				assault. The victim is responsible for payment of such costs. Notes Mont. Admin. r. 23.15.402 NEW, 2005 MAR p. 2063,
				  Eff. 10/28/05. 46-15-411 ,
					 MCA; IMP, 2-15-2014 , 46-15-411 ,
					 MCA; State regulations are updated quarterly; we currently have two versions available.
                        Below is a comparison between our most recent version and the prior quarterly release. More comparison features will be added as we have more versions to compare. No prior version found. State Regulations Toolbox